Title: The 83b Election
URL: https://avc.com/2023/02/the-83b-election/
Content:
First and foremost, this is not tax advice. I am not a tax advisor and you should never take anything you read here as tax advice. If you read something here that makes you think you should take some tax-related action, please always consult your tax advisor. With that disclosure out of the way, I would like to talk about 83b elections. An 83b election is a choice a taxpayer can make to pay the taxes in full at the time of the grant of an asset that vests over time and would otherwise be taxed as the asset vests. So why would you want to do that? Well, if the value of the asset at the time of grant is quite low and the taxes would not be significant to you, you might want to make an 83b election. Otherwise, you will be taxed as the asset vests and if the asset increases in value, those taxes could be significantly larger. Let’s look at an example. Let’s say you join a company that is very early stage and you are one of the first employees. Let’s say you are granted 100,000 shares of restricted stock that vest over four years and the current value of each of those shares is $0.10. That means the entire grant is worth $10,000 (100,000*0.1). If you file an 83b election, you are volunteering to pay the taxes on that $10,000 even though the shares vest over the next four years. The taxes on that $10,000 will depend on where you live, but will generally be in the range of $2500 to $5000. Now let’s say you decide not to file an 83b (or worse, you never heard of an 83b election and nobody suggested you file one). Let’s say one year later, your first vesting period happens, and 25,000 shares vest. And let’s say that the stock has increased significantly in value to $1/share over the first year. That means that the 25,000 shares that have vested will generate $25,000 in taxable income to you and the taxes you will owe on them will be in the range of $6,000 to $12,000. And you still have 75% of your grant unvested and the stock might keep going up, creating more taxes for you over the next three years. You have 30 days post grant to file an 83b election so you must move quickly if you want to do this. The downside of the 83b election is you will have paid the taxes on the stock even though you may leave the company and not vest into any or all of it. That is the risk you are taking when you file an 83b election and you must consider that risk when you make the election. In life, there are generally no free lunches. If you are being granted restricted stock, founders stock, or some other asset that vests over time, you should ask your employer and your tax advisor if you should file an 83b election. There is a good chance you will want to. The reason I decided to write about 83b elections today is that USV signed onto a comment letter to the IRS last week asking them to make e-filing and e-signing of 83b elections permanent. You can read the comment letter here . 83b elections are an important tax strategy for founders and early employees in startups and they should be used more frequently than they are. And it should be dead simple to file one. Taxes are hard enough for the average startup employee to understand and comply with. We should not make it harder.
Date: 2023-02-14T06:50:40

Title: Sign Everything
URL: https://avc.com/2022/12/sign-everything/
Content:
The advances in AI over the last year are mind-boggling. I attended a dinner this past week with USV portfolio founders and one who works in education told us that ChatGPT has effectively ended the essay as a way for teachers to assess student progress. It will be easier for a student to prompt ChatGPT to write the essay than to write it themselves. It is not just language models that are making huge advances. AIs can produce incredible audio and video as well. I am certain that an AI can produce a podcast or video of me saying something I did not say and would not say. I haven’t seen it yet, but it is inevitable. So what do we do about this world we are living in where content can be created by machines and ascribed to us? I think we will need to sign everything to signify its validity. When I say sign, I am thinking cryptographically signed, like you sign a transaction in your web3 wallet. I post my blogs at AVC.com and also at AVC.Mirror.xyz which is a web3 blogging platform that allows me to sign my posts and store them on-chain. This is an attestation at the end of last week’s blog post . You can see that “author address” and click on it to see that it is one of the various web3 addresses I own/control. That signifies that it was me who posted the blog. It is also stored on-chain on the Arweave blockchain so that the content exists independently of the blogging platform. That is also important to me. I think AI and Web3 are two sides of the same coin. As machines increasingly do the work that humans used to do, we will need tools to manage our identity and our humanity. Web3 is producing those tools and some of us are already using them to write, tweet/cast, make and collect art, and do a host of other things that machines can also do. Web3 will be the human place to do these things when machines start corrupting the traditional places we do/did these things.
Date: 2022-12-05T06:10:22

Title: Is It A Computer Or A Car?
URL: https://avc.com/2022/10/is-it-a-computer-or-a-car/
Content:
In the spring of 2014, I walked across the street from our apartment building to our parking garage to get our car and drive somewhere. I can’t recall where I was headed that morning. But as I walked into the garage, I saw two EV charging kiosks had been installed in our parking garage. I turned around and ran back to our apartment building, went back upstairs to our apartment, and told The Gotham Gal that we were getting a Tesla. I had long wanted an EV but the “how do we charge it in the city” problem had been the blocker. Now that was solved. Maybe a month later, the Tesla arrived and I drove it into the parking garage to show the garage attendant how to drive and charge the car. He sat behind the wheel while I described the features of the car and when I was done he said to me “ Mr. Wilson, they have combined an iPhone with a car! “ I love that story because never a truer word has been spoken. I was thinking about that when I was recently describing how my new Rivian Truck handles off-road driving. It isn’t four-wheel drive, it isn’t all-wheel drive, it is any-wheel drive. There are four electric motors, one on each wheel, and depending on how the truck is performing, different amounts of power are delivered to each and every wheel. The software determines which wheels need what power and supplies it to that wheel in real-time. Is the Tesla a car or a computer? Neither and a bit of both. Is the Rivian a truck or a computer? Neither and a bit of both. When you rethink a system, like a car or a truck, as a computer first and foremost, amazing things become possible. Like over-the-air software upgrades which continue to add new features to our Tesla eight years after I drove it into the parking garage for the first time. We have seen this story play out across many devices in our lives; phones, TVs, watches, thermostats, smoke alarms, light switches, etc, etc. It is an enormous shift in how things are designed and made and it is playing out right in front of us.
Date: 2022-10-03T06:11:42

Title: Remote, Hybrid, or In-Person?
URL: https://avc.com/2022/07/remote-hybrid-or-in-person/
Content:
We have been watching our portfolio of ~130 technology companies wrestle with this decision for the last two and a half years. Brought on by the covid pandemic and the work from home moment that it created, there has been a sea change in the way that technology companies organize themselves to get work done. Ben Horowitz observed this in a piece last week where he described A16Z’s decision to embrace a hybrid model that he called “ HQ in the Cloud .” It turns out that running a technology company remotely works pretty darned well. It’s not perfect, but mitigating the cultural issues associated with remote work turns out to be easier than mitigating the employee satisfaction issues associated with forcing everyone into the office 5 days/week. https://a16z.com/2022/07/21/a16z-is-moving-to-the-cloud/ Most people are happier having a lot of flexibility around where they work. We have seen that people who are raising families have benefitted from the flexibility of working closer to where their families are and the ability to be somewhere quickly. But that is only one example of why flexibility around where you work is so powerful. Many job functions require, or at least benefit from, the ability to concentrate without interruption or distraction. A quiet home office is vastly better than a busy open workspace for that kind of work. And then there is the commute. I am writing this on a commuter train heading into NYC. For a time in my life, I took a train like this into the city every morning at 6am and got back on it to go home at 6pm. It was almost an hour each way, so I spent almost two hours a day, five days a week, commuting. This can be a productive time, particularly if you are commuting on mass transit like I am right now, but many people don’t have convenient mass transit options in their lives and must drive to and from work, often in traffic. Eliminating the need to commute to the office might be the single best reason that people are happier having a lot of flexibility around where they work. The numbers are telling. As of this spring, only 38% of NYC office workers were in their office on a given day based on this survey by the Partnership For NYC (a leading business group in NYC). The numbers are similar in the Bay Area and Los Angeles. Some cities around the US have much higher numbers but I have not seen any city higher than 70% on this score. The Partnership concluded that remote work is here to stay: Remote work is here to stay, with 78% of employers indicating a hybrid office model will be their predominant post-pandemic policy, up from just 6% pre-pandemic. https://pfnyc.org/research/return-to-office-survey-results-may-2022/ But I want to return to Ben’s quote and talk about the cultural issues. I don’t believe we (the tech sector broadly) have done a good job of “mitigating the cultural issues with remote work.” I think a lot of the challenging morale and retention situations in our portfolio and across the tech sector suggest the opposite is true. Here is the quandry we face: People are happier with flexibility around where they work. Companies, teams, and organizations are happier when people are working together. Aren’t companies just collections of people? Yes. But groups of happier people are less happy together when they don’t get the face time that makes group dynamics easier. We all know that people are nicer to each other in person. Email and slack and zoom don’t bring out the best in people. Having a meal together does. So what should we do about this quandry? I don’t think the answer is restricting flexibility around where people work. That feels like table stakes now for knowledge workers. I think the answer is figuring out how to get people back together more frequently in ways they want to convene in person. There are many ways to do this and we have seen some good ones. At USV, we have two days a week where we meet together and as a group with founders (Mondays and Thursdays) and those days tend to be much more popular to be in the office. We don’t require people to come to the office on those days, but we do see that most people opt into coming in those days. We also make sure to order a great lunch on Mondays and Thursdays. We could and probably should add an after-work happy hour and/or sports teams/leagues to make those days even more attractive to the team. The basic idea is to make coming to the office an attractive option a few days a week. One USV portfolio CEO suggested a great idea in a CEO zoom we organized on this topic a year or so ago. He said that he wanted his teams to come together for a week at the start of a project and again for a week at the end of a project. He wanted them to be together to kick it off and again to ship it. I think that’s a great idea and have been encouraging the teams that I work with to do that. Our portfolio companies used to do exec team offsites a few times a year. A few of them are now doing them monthly. That makes sense to me. I can’t imagine an effective exec team that isn’t in person together at least once a month. And yet so many of the exec teams I have exposure to are not spending nearly enough time together right now and have not for the last few years. This same thought can be extrapolated to any team in any company. Those are just some examples of things that can be done and should be done to get people working together again in an age of remote work that is not going to end. I am sure there are many other great techniques and if you lead a company and/or an HR team, you should be collecting and using as many of them as you can right now. At USV, we feel pretty strongly that getting people back to working together in person is important to the success of our portfolio companies and the broader tech sector. So we recently opened our new office in NYC that is designed to host individuals and teams from our portfolio and the broader tech ecosystem that need somewhere nice to work together. Think WeWork meets SohoHouse meets VC firm. We are still working out the kinks this summer and plan to open it up more broadly in the fall. Stay tuned for more on that here and elsewhere. All change has good and bad downstream effects. The broad-based adoption of remote work in the tech sector (and beyond) is allowing people to balance work and home life in ways that are extremely beneficial to them. But team morale and the broader cultural needs of companies have suffered and we need to recognize that and address it. We can’t accept that as the new norm. It is unacceptable the way it is right now. A hybrid model that provides continued flexibility while creating a lot more face time is the long-term answer and we must keep innovating until we find the right balance.
Date: 2022-07-25T07:56:07

Title: Funding Friday: The $2.5mm Match
URL: https://avc.com/2022/05/funding-friday-the-2-5mm-match/
Content:
I blogged about the $1k Project For Ukraine a couple of months ago. Since then over 5,000 families in Ukraine have gotten a $1k gift, no strings attached, to help them survive during this crisis. That is $5mm of direct aid to families in Ukraine. Yesterday, Stewart Butterfield, the founder of Slack, tweeted that he and Jen Rubio will be matching another $2.5mm of $1k donations over the next 48 hours, starting at mid-day yesterday. "All” means no need to tweet receipts (or even read this): we’ll get the total donations worldwide & match that, up to $2.5M. I’ve personally had a tour of the backend & seen how vetting & approvals happen. We believe this direct giving model is worthy of investment and scaling. — Stewart Butterfield (@stewart) May 12, 2022 I just supported another five families and with this generous match, that is ten families. You can join me in supporting a family, or five, or however many you’d like here .
Date: 2022-05-13T05:48:41

Title: Keeping It Simple
URL: https://avc.com/2022/03/keeping-it-simple/
Content:
Investing is humbling. At 60, with 35 years of venture investing experience, I still get most things wrong. Which is why I like to keep things simple. And when I do I am rewarded. My friend Gordon asked me last night how I got into Bitcoin. I told him the story of how I bumped into Rikki Tahta walking through the garment district in NYC in the spring of 2011 and Rikki told me he was working on a Bitcoin startup. I replied, “a what coin startup?”. And Rikki told me to read the Bitcoin White Paper. I did and I was hooked. I didn’t even understand parts of the white paper. But what I did get was that it described a way of making permissionless money. And it was not just an idea. It was a working system that had been operating for several years. I understand how important permissionless servers and applications (web 1.0) turned out to be and so I understood how important permissionless money was going to be. That was all it took for me. I bought Bitcoin and went about finding a Bitcoin investment to make. That was Coinbase. The same was true with blogging and tweeting a decade earlier. I met Mena Trott at a Nick Denton party in NYC in 2003 and she explained blogging to me. I was struck by the idea that anyone could be a publisher. And I became one myself a few days later (when I wrote the first post here on AVC). That led me to Twitter a few years later when I saw that most people would prefer to write a text message to the world over a long-form blog post. For those that don’t know, Twitter was initially built to use SMS to post and so the initial 140 character limit was just under the max characters you could put into a text message. The same is true with NFTs. When I saw Rare Pepes, I was struck with the idea of making unique, rare, and scarce digital goods. And when I saw what Dapper Labs made with Crypto Kitties, I didn’t think too much about making that investment. It helped that the team had contributed to the ERC 721 spec and coined the name NFT. The point of these stories is that aha moments come around every so often and you just need to let them grab you and take you to a foundational investment. You don’t need to do much due diligence on these. I did none on Twitter, Coinbase, or Dapper. What I did do is use the products, get in the game, feel the power, and get conviction. You can read the investment memos for those investments on USV.com. Twitter Coinbase Dapper We publish our investment memos for the world to see. When you read them you will notice that they are basically an articulation of a big idea, what could happen, and in these cases, what did happen. That’s all. No technical diligence (had we done any on Twitter, we would have passed on it), no financial models, no talking to industry experts. Just an aha moment and an idea of what could happen. That’s keeping it simple. It doesn’t always work. We get more wrong than we get right. But when we get it right, amazing things can happen.
Date: 2022-03-20T10:56:33

Title: On Covid
URL: https://avc.com/2022/01/on-covid/
Content:
Two years ago this weekend, the Gotham Gal and I were in Park City at the annual Sundance Film Festival with another couple we have been great friends with for thirty years. On Monday morning we came down to breakfast and our friends announced they were flying back to NYC a few days early. Our friend Phil has been trading the financial markets for as long as we’ve known him and he knew, about a month before most of us, that something big was going to happen and he wanted to get prepared for it. That’s when it first hit me that we were in for something big. The financial markets tend to see things a bit ahead of us. If you look at the financial markets now, as I wrote two weeks ago , what we see is the unwinding of the Covid trade. Companies like Zoom and Peloton have seen their stocks come way down. Fiscal and monetary policies around the world that kept people fed and housed for the last two years are being unwound. And the financial markets are reacting as one would expect. Stocks are down. All risk assets are down a lot. This is the “tell” that Covid, as we have known it, is coming to an end in many parts of the world. There are three primary reasons why Covid, as we have known it, is coming to an end in the wealthier parts of the world. First, we have less severe variants now. Second, most people in the developed world who want to be vaccinated have been vaccinated, many multiple times. And third, we have antivirals that can protect those who get very sick. One of the first wake-up calls I got early in the pandemic was a blog post I read called “ The Hammer And The Dance ” that was written by Tomas Pueyo on March 19th, 2020. In that post, he described the series of lockdowns and other drastic measures that we would all go through over the last two years in order to attempt to protect vulnerable populations and the medical system from a virus that would otherwise wreak havoc on the world. He was prescient and accurate. About a week ago Tomas wrote a Twitter thread explaining that we are now in the midst of the end of the pandemic. You can read it here . This tweet particularly rang true to me: https://twitter.com/tomaspueyo/status/1483198842417950720?s=20 We all have been through a crazy, trying, stressful, and dangerous two years. Many of us have what Tomas calls PCSD, including our governments. And we all need to “unlearn many of the behaviors we’ve learned in the last two years”, particularly our governments. But I am not one to criticize our governments too much. Almost 6mm people have died because of Covid around the world in the last two years. The death toll in the US is approaching 1mm people. If our governments had not done “The Hammer and the Dance”, those numbers would be massively higher. The death toll from the Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918-1920 was between 20mm and 50mm around the world. We can all find faults with the way our governments handled Covid, but I think it was largely a job well done. In the US, the Trump administration prioritized vaccines with Operation Warp Speed which was a massive success. The Biden administration prioritized getting those vaccines distributed broadly and prioritized the most vulnerable populations. In NYS and NYC, vaccine mandates helped to get over 95% of NYers vaccinated and almost 75% “fully vaccinated “. And yet, most Americans find fault with our government’s response. Trump lost his re-election bid at least in part because of Covid. And Biden is facing massive unpopularity, also at least in part because of Covid. We have people who oppose vaccination and masks. We have people who believe that everyone should be required to be vaccinated and masked. Nobody can agree on anything and everyone is angry. It is time to stop obsessing about Covid. It is time to stop politicizing Covid. It is time to stop tweeting about Covid. It is time to stop reading about Covid. It is time to start healing and it is time to start moving on. We can live with Covid and most of us will. The current death rate of Covid in the US is about what a bad flu season would be. We have vaccines if you want them. We will have anti-virals if you need them. We should take a lesson from many Asian countries and mask up if we are feeling sick from now on. And you can wear masks if you are uncomfortable on the plane or the subway. We’ve normalized mask-wearing in the US now and that is a good thing. We’ve got other pressing matters to deal with. We have a warming planet that desperately needs our attention. We have economic challenges that need our attention. We have gun violence in our cities. We have other health care challenges to tackle. Covid was terrible, we are scarred from it, but we cannot let it divide us and we cannot let it drive us crazy. There are more important things facing us and let’s go deal with them now.
Date: 2022-01-24T08:45:37

Title: Computer Science Education Week
URL: https://avc.com/2021/12/computer-science-education-week/
Content:
The second week of December every year is Computer Science Education Week . It is a week to celebrate efforts to get computer science education into the K12 system around the world, and it is also a week in which schools do events, like The Hour of Code , to encourage students and teachers to get excited about learning computer science. Most AVC readers know that my passion project for the last decade has been getting computer science education broadly available in the NYC public school system. I have also been involved in efforts to get computer science education adopted around the US and around the world. But my primary focus has been NYC. This Computer Science Education Week, I celebrated by meeting with a very large employer in NYC and talking about getting that company’s employees deeply engaged with computer science education in the NYC schools and supporting the CS4All Capital Campaign, which I Chair. CS4All is NYC’s ten-year effort to get computer science classes into every school building in NYC by training 5,000 NYC public school teachers to deliver computer science classes. The CS4All Capital Campaign is a $40mm fundraising effort to support CS4All. We are now within spitting distance of the $40mm goal as we are in our seventh year of the campaign and program. If you know any individuals or non-profits or companies that would like to support the capital campaign, reply to this email or hit me up on Twitter and I would love to talk to them. I also participated in an event at Hunter College last night to discuss their effort to provide computer science certification courses to NYC teachers. This is a program that has run for two years now, led by my friend Mike Zamansky, who I like to call “the godfather of CS education in NYC.” The Hunter computer science certification program is supported by our public charity Gotham Gives and Google. We provide scholarships to high-performing teachers who want to get NYS certified as computer science teachers. If you know individuals, non-profits, or companies that would like to join Gotham Gives and Google supporting this effort, reply to this email or hit me up on Twitter. My one regret about this computer science education week is that I did not make it into a school building. This is the second year in a row that has been the case and I miss seeing teachers and students working together on projects and problems. My best moments over the years in this work have always been in the schools. This photo of incoming mayor Eric Adams and former Chancellor Richard Carranza was taken by me at PS24 in Sunset Park Brooklyn during CS Education Week in 2018. I wrote about that visit here . Computer science is the first new subject to be taught in K12 in 50+ years. Getting it broadly available in schools is hard work and requires commitment and persistence and a massive investment of time and money. But it is all worth it. Seeing the kids get excited about coding brings a big smile to my face every time.
Date: 2021-12-10T07:27:20

Title: Biking In Paris
URL: https://avc.com/2021/11/biking-in-paris/
Content:
We have been coming to Paris regularly for about 15 years and back in 2008, I started using the Velib bike share system and wrote about it here . A lot has changed in a decade and a half when it comes to biking in Paris. There are more bikes, more bike lanes, and more bikers. Velib is still a big piece of the Paris bike scene and they have a ton of pedal assist e-bikes in the system now. At most kiosks I see about half regular and half e-bikes. I wish NYC’s Citibike system had that mix in their kiosks. But I’ve been using a service called DOTT this stay in Paris. Every morning I like to go out to a coffee shop that is a twelve minute walk but a four minute bike ride. So I launch the DOTT app and find the nearest bike which is usually less than a block away and unlock it with my app. I took this one for coffee this morning: There are bike parking stations on almost every block in Paris and so it is easy to find a good and appropriate place to leave your bike. There are also a ton of scooters in Paris but that’s always been the case here. It does seem like the use of car transport is down a bit since we were here two years ago. Biking around Paris is great. It’s a wonderful city to see in slow motion. Walking is certainly the best way to get around Paris but biking is a close second.
Date: 2021-11-08T02:59:18

Title: NYC's Tech Resurgence (continued)
URL: https://avc.com/2021/10/nycs-tech-resurgence-continued/
Content:
A few weeks ago, I wrote about NYC’s Tech Resurgence . I observed that NYC continues to develop as one of the world’s leading centers of tech innovation. And then yesterday, I saw this tweet : NYC startups are getting funded at 2/3 the rate of Silicon Valley startups. That’s a huge change from where NYC was even two or three years ago. It wasn’t that long ago that a NYC-based startup had to agree to move to Silicon Valley to get money from the VCs out there. I think that was still a thing into the latter part of the 2000s. Now a decade and a half later, we see NYC startups raising capital almost as much as Silicon Valley startups. Wow.
Date: 2021-10-12T06:49:56

Title: Funding Friday: Honk NYC! 2021
URL: https://avc.com/2021/09/funding-friday-honk-nyc-2021/
Content:
I just backed this project to support a festival of street musicians in NYC in late October. Street bands have been picking up the slack for the last year in NYC, performing for outside diners and more throughout the city. This festival celebrates them and puts them front and center. Email readers can see the video here .
Date: 2021-09-17T06:54:20

Title: Office Utilization
URL: https://avc.com/2021/08/office-utilization/
Content:
I saw a statistic from one of our larger portfolio companies yesterday. They have had their offices around the world open for some time now with office usage optional. They are seeing office utilization rates of around “20-30%.” They are also seeing “flexibility” as the number one issue in recruiting new talent. That was interesting to me because we are seeing a much higher office utilization at USV. We kept our offices open for much of the last 18 months and encouraged a return to the office once we were all vaccinated in early April. On most days, we see about half of our team coming into the office. I think that number was higher in the spring and will be higher in the fall. We also see friends in the VC business and startup world working at our office from time to time and that has been fantastic. We have also seen that office utilization is much higher for our team members that live in NYC vs the suburbs, which is not surprising. This chart says it all: We surveyed our portfolio companies last month on the topic of their work environment plans. We got 56 responses which is a tad under 50% of our active portfolio so this data could be off a bit. But it is interesting. Pre-pandemic, 75% of these respondents were fully “in office” with most of the rest using some sort of hybrid model. Very few were fully remote. Now the distribution looks like this: That is a dramatic change from the pre-pandemic norm. I am sure that there will be some movement back to the office when we get to a new normal, whatever and whenever that is, but no matter what, tech companies have moved away from the “fully in-person” model and that will mean very different office utilization models. We also asked our portfolio companies about “seat to employee” ratios and got these responses: For those companies that will continue to have an office, it looks like the average seat to employee ratio nets out around 65%. And that is for the 75% of the respondents that plan to have some sort of office. At USV, we are taking a contrarian approach to the office. We plan to build a new office that can seat 100% of our employees and we want to be able to host board meetings and other events frequently. We are also looking at other ways to invite the broader “community” to work and be at USV regularly. But that does not mean we will expect our employees to be at the office every day. We understand that those with long commutes and children or parents at home need more flexibility and we have seen that providing that flexibility builds loyalty and commitment. So we will continue to support that way of working. Startups and high-growth companies seem to have embraced fully or partially remote models for the most part in an attempt to attract and retain talent and leverage the increased productivity that comes from eliminating long and painful commute times. But that doesn’t mean an office isn’t a good thing from time to time. It may be that organizations that support startups and high-growth companies, like USV, can step into the mix and be part of that answer. That is an interesting idea to me and one that USV is looking at right now.
Date: 2021-08-24T07:12:56

Title: Crypto and the Infrastructure Bill
URL: https://avc.com/2021/08/crypto-and-the-infrastructure-bill/
Content:
I mentioned the infrastructure bill here last week. I continue to be impressed by the way Senators and the White House are working across the aisle to get a very big piece of legislation across the finish line. It is not done, but it sure looks like it will get done. As I mentioned in the post last week, there is language in the initial draft of the bill requiring crypto “brokers” to report gains and losses to the IRS. The Treasury expects this provision to produce upwards of $30bn in new tax revenues over the next ten years. I personally have no issue with crypto gains and losses being treated the same as stock gains and losses and we have been doing that at USV for quite a while now. But I do have concerns that the way “brokers” are defined in the context of crypto is very different than how it is defined in the traditional financial sector. The language in the initial draft is overly broad, infringing on privacy, and technically unworkable. Crypto industry participants like miners, wallets, smart contracts, and other kinds of hardware and software cannot carry the same obligations as “brokers” like Coinbase and Square Cash. But here is the good news. The crypto sector has come together to get the language changed in a way that I have never seen before. Everyone in crypto is working together, staying on message, working all of the avenues, and creating the appropriate amount of pressure on the process. And while we do not yet have the language we need, we are getting there and I am hopeful that we will land in a good place. It is also the case that when a government decides that a sector is an important producer of revenues, that is a sign that it has arrived. Many out there think these new regulations are bad for crypto but I think they are a bullish sign. Crypto is here to stay and is a mainstream industry now. For these reasons, I think this is a watershed moment for crypto in the US. The industry has come together like never before and is acting in concert, professionally and productively. It is on message and effective. And the government is getting in business with the crypto sector to finance it’s own needs. That sounds like a win to me.
Date: 2021-08-03T09:53:59

Title: Funding Friday: Ethereum: The Infinite Garden
URL: https://avc.com/2021/07/funding-friday-ethereum-the-infinite-garden/
Content:
ETHEREUM: THE INFINITE GARDEN is a “feature-length documentary film that explores the innovative real-world applications of the Ethereum blockchain, the die-hard community of enthusiasts and developers, and its creator, Vitalik Buterin, whose vision for the internet has the potential to change the world.” The film is being crowdfunded on the Ethereum blockchai n and the campaign ends at 6pm eastern time today. When you choose to back the project, you will have a choice to pledge one ETH and get an NFT from the film or pledge less and get a token recognizing your contribution. I backed the film earlier this week and as of this morning, the film has raised 500 ETH of the 750 ETH goal. You can back the film here .
Date: 2021-07-16T07:23:51

Title: Regulating Software
URL: https://avc.com/2021/06/regulating-software/
Content:
I understand that regulators and elected officials need to raise concerns about new technologies and their impact on society. It is their job or at least part of their job. But I am also dismayed regularly by how poorly many elected officials and regulators understand the technologies they are talking about. In particular, I am deeply concerned with how poorly many elected officials and regulators understand blockchains, smart contracts, and decentralized applications and organizations. They assume that these things are run by companies and people and can be regulated with traditional corporate regulatory activities. What people need to understand is that blockchains, smart contracts, and decentralized applications and organizations are not companies. They are software. And they can and do run without any company operating them. Let’s look at Bitcoin. There is no Bitcoin Inc. There is no company to sue. The founder is unkown and may not exist. So she can’t be sued either. There is nobody to call before Congress. There is no entity to make regulatory filings. AMMs are smart contracts. These smart contracts operate liquidity pools that allow for decentralized trading of assets without any company operating them, controlling them, or managing them. Once these software programs are published on a decentralized blockchain, they just keep running without any intervention by anyone. I could go on and on, but I expect you get the point. So when someone says that one or many of these decentralized software applications needs to be regulated or, god forbid, shut down, I wonder the heck they are talking about. I don’t even know what that means. Of course, using this decentralized technology could be deemed illegal in places and I fully expect that we will see that happen. But we won’t see it happen everywhere. And the places that embrace these new technologies will benefit immensely from them. So, like the criminalization of alcohol and gold, those approaches will eventually fail and will harm those regions that try it relative to the regions that embrace it. I believe the more productive path for regulators and elected officials is to take the time to understand how this stuff actually works and think about new ways that society can mitigate the risks while gaining the benefits. That’s a harder path but a better path.
Date: 2021-06-24T16:19:47

Title: Community Solar
URL: https://avc.com/2021/06/community-solar/
Content:
We had a situation recently where a rooftop solar project on a building we own became too expensive (because of NYC Fire Department requirements) and it no longer made economic sense to do the installation. And yet we want to avail ourselves of solar energy to benefit from the economics of solar, to reduce our carbon footprint, and to increase the resiliency of our property. So we are reaching out to some community solar developers in NYC who have built out solar infrastructure that the community can participate in. I’ve been interested in community solar for a while now. It makes sense to me that a group of people can build and participate in a solar installation where it most makes sense and then share in the energy that installation generates. Community solar works best when a consumer can receive a credit on their electrical bill for their community solar output. This is possible in the states that have deregulated their electrical systems. At USV we think community solar represents an interesting way to participate in the renewable energy business and we are looking at a few opportunities now and would like to look at more.
Date: 2021-06-07T08:40:38

Title: Putting Carbon Back In The Ground
URL: https://avc.com/2021/05/putting-carbon-back-in-the-ground/
Content:
As USV is now about six months into investing our first climate fund, I am starting to see more clearly what climate investing is all about and my partner Albert said something in a team meeting earlier this week that really stuck with me. I did not write it down but it was something like, “we’ve spent two hundred years taking carbon out of the ground, burning it, and putting it into the atmosphere and what we now need to do is get it from the atmosphere and put it back into the ground.” That is a simplification of the many technologies and projects that are underway to capture carbon and sequester it, but I am a fan of simple. In investing, the simpler the better for me.
Date: 2021-05-19T07:32:36

Title: The New Builders
URL: https://avc.com/2021/05/the-new-builders/
Content:
My friend Seth Levine and Elizabeth MacBride have written an important book about the changing face of entrepreneurship in the US. It is called The New Builders and it came out this week. You can purchase it at all the places listed here . This bit from the book’s Amazon page explains The New Builders’ message: The dominant image of an entrepreneur as a young white man starting a tech business on the coasts isn’t correct at all. Today’s American entrepreneurs, the people who drive critical parts of our economy, are more likely to be female and non-white. In fact, the number of women-owned businesses has increased 31 times between 1972 and 2018 according to the Kauffman Foundation (in 1972, women-owned businesses accounted for just 4.6% of all firms; in 2018 that figure was 40%). The fastest-growing group of female entrepreneurs are women of color, who are responsible for 64% of new women-owned businesses being created. In a few years, we believe women will make up more than half of the entrepreneurs in America. Seth sent me a manuscript about six months ago and I read with interest the stories of these women of color starting businesses of all kinds. This is not the entrepreneurship that I tend to write about here at AVC, but in many ways it is more important, more courageous, and more powerful. If you want to be inspired and encouraged, pick up The New Builders give it a read.
Date: 2021-05-04T06:16:25

Title: Citibiking
URL: https://avc.com/2021/04/citibiking/
Content:
Long-time readers know that I am a big Citibike fan. Citibike is the name of NYC’s bike-share program. I have been blogging about it since it launched in the spring of 2013, eight years ago now. I wrote this at the time. Since it started getting warm in NYC about a month ago, I have been Citibiking to work, to home, to dinner, etc. And I must say that the Citibike experience in NYC has gotten a lot better in the last few years. There are now a lot of electric bikes. I don’t use them because I prefer to get the workout, but I see a lot of people using them. The newer bikes are really easy to ride. They keep improving the bikes and the latest lot of them are terrific. The Citibike app has also improved. It now starts with a navigation map and you can easily see where to get your bike and where to drop it off. And finally, NYC keeps adding bike lanes and making them better. I rode all around lower manhattan yesterday and was always in a bike lane, feeling safe and that I belonged there. Biking is a great way to get around NYC and Citibike makes it so simple. Get a bike, ride somewhere, drop it off. It is one of the great things that has happened to NYC in the almost forty years we have lived here.
Date: 2021-04-20T06:39:32

Title: Hubspot
URL: https://avc.com/2021/04/hubspot/
Content:
I do a lot of “bulk emailing” but I hate sending bulk emails. I prefer to personalize emails and send them one by one so that the recipient understands that the email came from me. What that has meant is that I take google sheets full of email addresses and I cut and paste a message into my gmail for each and every email address. That is incredibly slow, dull, repetitive, and painful. About a year ago, we started using Hubspot for our family’s philanthropic efforts and it was a revelation to me. Hubspot connects to my gmail account and the emails I send from it appear to the recipient like I sent them personally from my gmail. But behind the scenes, I can collaborate with my colleagues on templates and lists for various bulk emails that I need to send. When it is time for me to send the emails, I simply work my way through the list, selecting a new name, adding the template, making any little changes to personalize the message, and then I hit send. It is still a fair bit of work to do that for twenty or thirty or forty names, but I can do it in ten to twenty minutes and the recipient gets a personalized email from me which as we all know increases the open and reply rate by orders of magnitude. If you are looking for a great way to do bulk emailing, I highly recommend Hubspot.
Date: 2021-04-05T06:48:07

Title: Stack Overflow For Teams Goes Freemium
URL: https://avc.com/2021/03/stack-overflow-for-teams-goes-freemium/
Content:
I could not help but use the word Freemium in the headline to this post. For those that don’t know, the word Freemium was invented here at AVC, back in 2006 . I am quite proud of that fact, even though I did not come up with the word myself. With that business taken care of, let’s move on to the topic of the day. Our portfolio company Stack Overflow, best know for its massive free knowledge sharing service for programmers , has been building a companion business over the last few years called Stack Overflow For Teams . Teams is the same knowledge-sharing software that programmers know and love but for private sharing inside of companies. Since launching Teams, it has been free for the first thirty days. But it takes longer than that to build great knowledge sharing inside of companies. So last week, Stack launched a new version of Stack Overflow For Teams that is now free forever for teams of 50 or less. If you use Stack Overflow and love how it surfaces the answers to your questions and you want to use it for your team, you can do that for free right now. Go here and click Create A Free Team. A Freemium Stack for your team. I love it.
Date: 2021-03-22T05:57:21

Title: Funding Friday: Watch Now From Kickstarter
URL: https://avc.com/2021/03/funding-friday-watch-now-from-kickstarter/
Content:
My normal practice on Fridays is to post a Kickstarter project that I have backed that I think is interesting and that others might want to back. But today, I want to talk about Kickstarter’s Watch Now on iTunes offering. If you are like us and have watched so much TV during the pandemic that you are now struggling to find new things to watch, click on over to Watch Now and find amazing independent films that were funded on Kickstarter and are available to watch on iTunes.
Date: 2021-03-05T09:10:27

Title: Going Off Grid
URL: https://avc.com/2021/02/going-off-grid/
Content:
It is terrible what is happening to people in Texas and other parts of the country where this super cold snap has caused power outages and freezing cold temperatures in their homes. But it is also a reminder that we need not be reliant on the grid. In fact, we should figure out how to reduce our reliance on the grid when things like this happen. Until recently, that generally meant a generator that is powered by oil or gas. And that is still a good thing to have when the grid becomes unreliable. But there are also new ways of doing this with solar and batteries. A Sonnen Eco battery can store up to 20kWh. A Tesla Powerwall stores 13.5kWh. A fully electrified home, heated and cooled with energy-efficient heat pumps, would consume on average 20kWh per day to heat and cool the home in a moderate climate. Rooftop solar could produce that or more on most days on sunny days. A home that is fully electrified and has rooftop solar could operate off grid many days. Adding a battery means that the home could also operate off grid at night. And when the grid goes down, the combo of solar, battery, and a heat pump could allow a home to stay warm (or cool) for as long as necessary. I have been drawn to this model of resilience and have been working towards it personally for a while now. I think what is happening with the weather out there might be the catalyst for many more to think this way.
Date: 2021-02-18T18:28:21

Title: A Nice Zoom Hack
URL: https://avc.com/2021/02/a-nice-zoom-hack/
Content:
After almost a year of being on Zoom all day, I am sick and tired of looking at myself on the screen. But I don’t love going off video and then everyone seeing a black box with a profile picture of me. So I learned a new Zoom trick in a board meeting last week. If you check the box in the Zoom video settings called “hide non-video participants”, then you can turn your video off and nobody will see your profile hanging out there with video off. When you turn video back on, you will be seen by everyone. It’s a bit like muting and unmuting. But for video. I like it.
Date: 2021-02-03T15:07:19

Title: Introducing The New CEO
URL: https://avc.com/2021/01/introducing-the-new-ceo/
Content:
When a CEO has been removed for failed leadership , it is best to have a new CEO waiting in the wings to take over. I have been in the middle of this transition many times and have often been the person announcing the change to the company and introducing the new CEO. I have seen this done well and I have seen this done poorly. That first all-hands meeting is a critical moment for the new CEO. He/she needs to connect with the team, tell them who they are, what they care about, and, most importantly, where they are going to lead the Company. Most of the time the team is shaken up, things are not going well, they are nervous. There may have been layoffs. There may be more layoffs. Calm, confident, assured leadership is what is needed. But it is also critical to show empathy for the team and humanity in the leader. A warm smile and a sense of humor can help a lot. When explaining where they will take the Company, less is more. Companies cannot do that many things at the same time. Failed leadership often results in doing too many things. So a shortlist of things that the Company will do and a longer list of things that it will not do anymore is a great start for a new leader. If there will be more layoffs, it is best to say that right upfront. You must start off by being honest with the team. Anything else will doom you to failure. Getting off on the right foot is so important. If you do it well, the team will rally around you. If you do it poorly, you are done before you even started. The United States is getting a new leader today. I plan to watch his introduction to the country. I wish him well. Good luck President Biden.
Date: 2021-01-20T05:58:14

Title: Current Events and Math
URL: https://avc.com/2021/01/current-events-and-math/
Content:
Watching the election returns last night made me think about all of the math we are learning in the last year. Now that our elections include different kinds of votes that have different demographics associated with them (mail-in votes, early votes, same-day votes), the absolute numbers move all around as the votes are being counted and reported. The networks are doing a pretty good job of trying to explain all of this math to us while it is happening and it is a real teaching/learning moment. The same is true of the Covid pandemic. We are living in the midst of a disease that can expand exponentially. And we can see how lockdowns and other things (vaccines?) can change the viral coefficient of the spread. That is another teaching/learning moment. There is nothing like using real-world examples and experiences to explain things that are not easy to understand. If I was teaching math right now, I would be using these events to teach complicated math concepts to my students. I am not a teacher but my dad was. I will end with a story about him that I got via email last week. His passing has generated a lot of this sort of thing and my family and I appreciate it very much. I recall the first day of class in Vector Mechanics.  The bell rang to signal the beginning  of class and the section marcher called us to attention.  MAJ Wilson did not appear through the door on cue.  All heads looked toward  the door.  Suddenly an arrow (with a suction cup) shot through the door and hit the board at the other end of the room.  As it vibrated against the wall MAJ Wilson entered the room with bow in hand and announced,  “That gentlemen was a vector.” Apparently that toy arrow was from my brother and my toy chest. My dad took it work to use something real to explain something a bit hard to understand. And it worked. So as we all go through our days explaining things to our kids and colleagues, it is good to remember to leverage real world examples we all know and understand. They really work.
Date: 2021-01-06T06:41:06

Title: Marketing in 2021
URL: https://avc.com/2020/12/marketing-in-2021/
Content:
My friends at Zeta Global (a USV portfolio company) put together this report on marketing in 2021 . It clocks in a 26 pages so here are some highlights: Those ways that artists made money in 2020 to make up for a lack of touring revenue—intimate livestreams, catalog licensing and syncs and expanded merch offerings—will continue after the touring industry returns to normal. Desiree Perez — CEO of Roc Nation After nearly a year of isolation, the floodgates of social life, dating, festivals, and travel will open into a social revolution once vaccines reach the minimum threshold. Jokes about the new roaring 20’s will abound on social media, and the moniker will feel earned. Young people, most notably college students and recent graduates, will make up for lost time, checking off — and adding to — their bucket lists with abandon. Lauren Weiniger — Co-Founder and CEO of The SAFE Group Even with the pandemic lingering into the new year, 2021 will be a banner year for the sports industry. Fan engagement and the business of sports have never been stronger, which is NOT the story you’ll hear if you simply listen to people talk about decreased TV ratings. That would be the same as evaluating the retail industry by just looking at brick & mortar store sales. Michael Rubin — Founder and Executive Chairman, Fanatics | Partner, Philadelphia 76ers Social Impact and ESG focus and efforts by large companies will increasingly be measured and become reporting metrics for large institutional investors. All public companies will be required to diversify their boards and executive officers. Thomas Davidson — CEO of Everfi We will see the rise of live shopping in the U.S. in 2021. Imran Khan, Co-Founder & CEO, Verishop While the COVID pandemic has wreaked unprecedented devastation in our communities, in the health care arena it has ushered in an era of rapid advancement and deployment of technology, ranging from telemedicine to at-home disease diagnostics to wearable oxygen sensors. Cat Oyler — Vice President and Integration Leader of Momenta Pharmaceuticals There are many more good predictions in there and lots of sound advice on how to evolve a marketing program for the new world we are operating in. You can r ead the entire thing here .
Date: 2020-12-21T12:33:28

Title: Expand E-Rate To Low Income Households
URL: https://avc.com/2020/12/expand-e-rate-to-low-income-households/
Content:
E-Rate is a program put in place in the 1996 Telecommunications Act to expand Universal Service Fund fees to schools in order to help them upgrade their telecom infrastructure. Telcos charge customers Universal Service Fund fees so that they can provide “universal service”, originally aimed at rural and other locations that were/are not profitable to service otherwise. E-Rate has largely been successful in helping schools move from no internet, to DSL and low bandwidth internet, to cable and fiber over the last twenty years. But now we have the realization that remote, blended, and hybrid learning models, brought on by the pandemic and likely here to stay in some form, require something more. They require that EVERY child needs a reliable high bandwidth connection to the internet from their home. School districts all over the country have been scrambling for the last nine months to raise money from charitable sources so that they can provide hot spots and other ways to get kids internet in their homes so they can attend school. I have participated in a number of these campaigns and they have been heroic in many ways, but it is still not enough. The FCC can do something simple and powerful. They can do it now. They can expand E-Rate to include low income households who need reliable and high bandwidth internet so that their children can attend school. I would like to see them do that asap.
Date: 2020-12-07T06:08:12

Title: Thoughts On Charles Duhigg's New Yorker Piece
URL: https://avc.com/2020/11/thoughts-on-charles-duhiggs-new-yorker-piece/
Content:
I saw this tweet in my feed yesterday and read the New Yorker piece when I woke up this morning: @fdestin @MacConwell @HarryStebbings any VC 'fairy godfathers of success' viewpoints? "Building a solid business, but the V.C.s wanted fantasy….the hope that one lucky wager would more than offset many bad bets." #startups @fredwilson blog fodder https://t.co/OossQ5MZjC — Claudia Lamb (@cloudylamb) November 23, 2020 Here’s what I think. There is more truth to that article than anyone in the venture capital industry wants to admit. The idea that capital alone can create a strong company is a flawed idea that the VC industry pursued with a lot of passion for most of the last decade. The flameout of WeWork and the tarnished stories around other “fundraising as a strategy” startups will hopefully put an end to that approach of building companies, but I won’t hold my breath until that happens. It is true that we VCs enable the bad behaviors outlined in that piece and we must look a little more carefully at ourselves in the mirror in the morning and, as the Gotham Gal likes to tell me, “get over ourselves.” I won’t hold my breath until that happens either. All of that said, the vast majority of VC-backed companies are not WeWork. The vast majority of VC-backed companies are innovative, led by good people, and are creating value the old fashioned way, by supplying their customers with high quality products and services. We should not let a few bad apples spoil the whole bunch. Cautionary tales like WeWork and the others outlined by Charles Duhigg are healthy. But they are not the entire story, thankfully.
Date: 2020-11-24T06:34:53

Title: The Covid Rotation
URL: https://avc.com/2020/11/the-covid-rotation/
Content:
Yesterday morning we got the news that Pfizer’s mRNA Covid vaccine developed in partnership with BioNTech saw 90% efficacy in phase three clinical trials. While this is terrific news, Wall Street saw it as bad news for companies that are doing well during this pandemic (Zoom, Peloton, e-commerce, etc). This is a chart of Jim Cramer’s Covid 100 index: Wall Street believes the end of the Covid pandemic is in sight and is rotating out of this group. I see that as terrific news, even though I am a large holder of a name or two in that index. I cannot wait until I can start meeting entrepreneurs again in person. I cannot wait until USV can meet together in person. I cannot wait until I can see live music, movies, theater, etc, etc. These things cannot come soon enough for me. But I also wonder how many of the habits we acquired during this pandemic (which is NOT over yet), will stick when we can go back to doing all of these things we long to do. Here are some questions to ponder: 1/ Will our use of Zoom to meet decline materially when the pandemic is over? 2/ Will we get back on planes and resume our business travel like we did before the pandemic? 3/ Will we go back to the spin studio even though we learned to love a spin class on our Peloton? 4/ Will we rush back to stores and abandon our e-commerce habits? 5/ Will we all go back to the office five days a week? I think the answer is yes to a degree, but almost certainly not totally. We have created new habits in this awful year and they are not going to go away so quickly, or ever. I don’t know if that means the Covid 100 index is a buying opportunity or it needs to go down some more. I will leave that to Jim Cramer. I do know that the way we work and live and entertain ourselves has changed materially and forever in this pandemic and things won’t be exactly the same when it is over.
Date: 2020-11-10T05:56:47

Title: The David Prize
URL: https://avc.com/2020/10/the-david-prize/
Content:
The David Prize is a philanthropic effort to find NYers who are doing amazing things and support them financially. They recently announced five winners, you can see them here . They have an open call for new applicants and you can apply here . The deadline is December 4th. They are eager to support entrepreneurs of all kinds who are working to make a better NYC. If that sounds like you, then you should apply for a David Prize .
Date: 2020-10-27T06:13:36

Title: Numerai Signals
URL: https://avc.com/2020/10/numerai-signals/
Content:
Our portfolio company Numerai , which operates the crowdsourced Numerai Hedge Fund and is the creator of the Numeraire crypto token introduced their latest effort, Numerai Signals , with this video yesterday:
Date: 2020-10-13T06:52:13

Title: Talk:NYC Podcast
URL: https://avc.com/2020/09/talknyc-podcast/
Content:
I have been saying no to podcast requests and will continue to do so. But when Julie Samuels asked me to be the first guest on the Tech:NYC podcast, called Talk:NYC , I had to say yes. We talked about tech, NYC, the current moment we are living through, and a lot more. It’s about 35mins. You can listen here . https://soundcloud.com/user-212806065/talknycep01fredwilson
Date: 2020-09-30T06:35:20

Title: Home Sweet Home
URL: https://avc.com/2020/09/home-sweet-home/
Content:
We have been back in NYC for about a week after being away for the entire pandemic. We were in LA when the pandemic hit and then spent the summer on the east end of Long Island. Like everyone, we have read the horror stories of NYC being a wasteland of homelessness, crime, shuttered storefronts, filthy streets, and more. These stories occupy the front page of the NY Post every day and cannot be avoided. While we have not ventured into every borough and neighborhood, we have been in downtown Manhattan and North Brooklyn, and what we have found is almost the exact opposite of what is being reported. New Yorkers are out and about, wearing masks, keeping their distance, and enjoying our city very much. Fall is the best season in NYC and New Yorkers are taking advantage of it. My daughter and I biked in Prospect Park yesterday like we do most Sunday mornings and it felt as busy as any Sunday morning in my memory. The Gotham Gal and I have been going out to dinner at our favorite restaurants in lower manhattan, sitting outside, and enjoying the experience. The walks to and from dinner through lower manhattan are amazing, the streets are bustling and NYC feels very much alive. It is true that the streets are filthier. It reminds me of NYC in the 80s and 90s when we first fell in love with this place. It is also true that many storefronts are empty, a continuation of something that has been going on in NYC for the last decade and has been accelerated by the pandemic. I am sure there are parts of the city that are not doing so well. I’ve heard that midtown is empty and facing challenges. I know that the neighborhood around the USV office in Flatiron is not as vibrant as it usually is. And I am sure that there are challenges in the neediest neighborhoods where the pandemic hit hardest and the economy is the most challenging. I am not saying that NYC is doing great. What I am saying is the demise of NYC seems to have been greatly exaggerated by the media and others. The NYC that we are experiencing is showing its resilience and makes me very confident that it will once again get back up from the punch it just took and start swinging again.
Date: 2020-09-14T06:29:02

Title: Funding Friday: Isolated On The Road
URL: https://avc.com/2020/08/funding-friday-isolated-on-the-road/
Content:
I backed a bunch of projects this morning on Kickstarter and this one really stuck with me. I like supporting young creators who are putting their work out there and seeking funding for it. And I also like the idea of documenting this pandemic in photos so we can remember it when its in the rear view mirror.
Date: 2020-08-28T11:08:33

Title: Funding Friday: Ghost Pacer
URL: https://avc.com/2020/08/funding-friday-ghost-pacer/
Content:
As is my weekly routine, I went onto Kickstarter and backed a bunch of projects this morning. One of them was Ghost Pacer , a holographic running partner. Ghost Pacer was created by AbdurRahman Bhatti , an “All-state cross country runner, Princeton-bound engineer, and an avid tinkerer and Tetris player.” I guess he made this for himself and is now bringing it to market. I really like it when people are inspired to make something for themselves and then they make it for everyone. If you want to back Ghost Pacer, you can do so here .
Date: 2020-08-14T06:02:05

Title: Funding Friday: The Last Fair Deal
URL: https://avc.com/2020/07/funding-friday-the-last-fair-deal/
Content:
Playing cards and listening to the blues is the perfect combo and this deck of cards celebrates that. I backed this project immediately when I saw it this morning. It has five days to go and is 70% of the way to its goal. If you love cards and the blues, check it out .
Date: 2020-07-31T06:31:19

Title: When Do I Create A Board?
URL: https://avc.com/2020/07/when-do-i-create-a-board/
Content:
I’ve been asked this question a bunch in the last few weeks in response to my post about more diversity on Boards . My answer to this question is simple. A Company should have a Board the day it is formed. The Board should contain one Founder (or possibly two) and at least two independent Directors. I know that many founders want to control their Boards for as long as possible. I would prefer to see a Founder give up control right away but place control in the hands of independent Directors they nominate. That way they can be comfortable that the independent Directors will have both their interests and the Company’s interests at heart. This will also make it a lot less likely that the Investors will eventually control the Board as the Board will have institutionalized the notion of independent Directors early on and ideally they will remain the majority of the Board forever. Finally, it’s a great idea to pick diverse candidates for those independent seats day one. Diversity means “not like us” so it could mean gender diversity, racial diversity, industry diversity, experience diversity, or ideally more than one of those things.
Date: 2020-07-16T08:24:35

Title: Funding Friday: Second Chance Studio
URL: https://avc.com/2020/07/funding-friday-second-chance-studio/
Content:
My partner Nick blogged about this Kickstarter project yesterday and I immediately backed it. Second Chance Studio is a nonprofit digital media company that trains and employs formerly incarcerated individuals. You can back their Kickstarter project here .
Date: 2020-07-03T06:16:30

Title: Real-Time Recount
URL: https://avc.com/2020/06/real-time-recount/
Content:
Our portfolio company Recount Media , which I have blogged about here before, recently launched an interesting partnership between Recount, Twitter, and brand marketers. They are calling this partnership “Real-Time Recount.” Recount is a news organization which publishes short-form video news on their owned and operated web and mobile apps, and also on platforms like Twitter, YouTube, Instagram, etc. These short-form videos are particularly popular in social media platforms like Twitter . What Real-Time Recount allows marketers to do is associate with a branded news organization while also taking advantage of the scale and hyper-targeting available on the scaled social platforms. Ad Age has a good story today about this partnership (behind paywall) and Recount CEO John Battelle has a good post on his blog about it as well. I like how John summarizes this opportunity at the start of his post: It’s time to get back to the work marketers used to be really good at: Deciding on the appropriate context in which to engage your audience. And it’s time to pull back from a habit most of you have fallen into: Letting the machines choose your audience for you. Thanks to new approaches which fuse at-scale ad targeting with high-quality editorial product, you can step into this renewed role without sacrificing the reach, precision, and targeting afforded by the likes of Facebook, Google, Twitter, and their kin. https://battellemedia.com/archives/2020/06/marketers-have-given-up-on-context-and-our-national-discourse-is-suffering Since the AdAge article is behind a paywall, I will pull a quote from yours truly to wrap up this blog post: It won’t be for all advertisers in the beginning, but the ones who are courageous and can think about how to do it in a way that is consistent with their brand and their values, I think they’re going to be rewarded because they will get a lot of audience. They will get it in a [scaled] way, with high frequency and high quality. So, I think that’s one of the opportunities and challenges for The Recount is to bring advertisers along with us. Advertisers are used to being in cable news and linear television. They understand what that is. We’ve got to educate them on how to do it in social platforms, to do it in a way they can be comfortable with.
Date: 2020-06-17T11:57:38

Title: A New Month
URL: https://avc.com/2020/06/a-new-month/
Content:
I woke up at dawn today. The sun was lightening the sky. The birds were chirping. I was reminded of the power of a new day, a clean slate, new opportunities. It is June. After three months of pandemic lockdowns, job losses like I have not seen in my lifetime, and a week of turmoil in our streets and in our hearts, we have the hope that comes with a new day. Clearly we have problems in our country and our world. When the tide goes out, you can see who has been swimming naked. And so many of us have been swimming naked. The pandemic has been quite revealing. It is time to make some changes. Big changes. Long overdue changes. We can start by acknowledging that. And then we should seize the opportunity that comes with a new day, a new month, a new set of priorities, to make those changes. We simply need to courage and conviction to come together and do it.
Date: 2020-06-01T05:37:49

Title: Kickstarter Lights On
URL: https://avc.com/2020/05/kickstarter-lights-on/
Content:
So many of our favorite community anchors have shuttered in the wake of the pandemic. And reopening them won’t be easy. Music venues, movie theaters, art galleries, restaurants, performance spaces, maker spaces, conferences, festivals, and bookshops are the places we hang out in, enjoy each other, and and connect to art and culture. But these spaces also have communities of people connected to them, rooting for them, and eager to help them. Enter Kickstarter , the crowdfunding platform for bringing creative projects to life (and a USV portfolio company). Kickstarter is not charity, although there is certainly a need for charity in this moment. Kickstarter is a platform to engage your community, reward them, and encourage them to support your work. A few weeks ago, Kickstarter launched Lights On , a call for projects that “sustain your cultural space, event series, creative organization, or independent business”. https://www.kickstarter.com/lights-on If you own or operate a cultural space, a local beloved business, an event series, or some other community treasure and want to engage your community in your reopening plan, Kickstarter Lights On is for you. You can learn more about it here .
Date: 2020-05-18T06:28:36

Title: Quantitative Tightening
URL: https://avc.com/2020/05/quantitative-tightening/
Content:
I saw this tweet a few days ago and thought “that’s clever”: Is $BTC a hedge against economic uncertainty? Our report "Bitcoin’s Quantitative Tightening vs. Central Banks' Quantitative Easing" sets out to answer just that. Download it here: https://t.co/EmEs2vT93d pic.twitter.com/E8gORKjZSe — Grayscale (@GrayscaleInvest) April 30, 2020 On or about May 12th, Bitcoin will go through its third “halvening” in which the rewards for mining bitocin will be cut in half. This will reduce the “inflation rate” of new bitcoins being mined and will also change the economics of mining bitcoin. In the past, halvenings have been bullish for the price of Bitcoin over the medium to long term, but there is no guarantee it will play out that way this time. There are a bunch of impacts to the Bitcoin ecosystem of a halvening and the past is certainly not a predictor of the future. However, as the Grayscale tweet above points out, there is a stark contrast between the way Bitcoin works and the way central banks work. Bitcoin is tightening its money supply at the same time central banks are loosening it. That is a reason to have some exposure to Bitcoin in my view. We are long Bitcoin and have been for many years.
Date: 2020-05-04T09:04:02

Title: Still Open For Business
URL: https://avc.com/2020/04/still-open-for-business/
Content:
I wrote a blog post on March 12th called Open For Business and thought I would return to the topic. If you search for “vc open for business” on Twitter , you will see almost universal scorn for the idea that VCs are open for business right now. But our experience doesn’t match that scorn. Since writing that post, we have watched a bunch of our portfolio companies close financings, some on the same terms as provided before the pandemic and some on slightly adjusted terms. We have mostly seen VC firms live up to the commitments they made pre-pandemic and in the cases where terms changed, it has not been not gratuitous. On our side, we have signed three or four term sheets since I wrote that post, closed on a few of them already, are currently engaged in several processes. We have had to step up to the plate in a few situations and provide interim financing, and we are certainly working very closely with our existing portfolio companies during this challenging time for many of them. But our focus has not moved dramatically away from looking at and investing in new companies and we don’t see a dramatic change in that regard among many of our peers in the venture community. David Kelnar sent me a blog post he wrote addressing some of these trends this morning and I saw this chart in it. I don’t think new investment activity has shrunk from 40% of the industry’s time to just above 20%. From what I see, it has shrunk a bit, but not cut in half. There certainly are funds who are focused on sectors that have taken a bath in the pandemic and in those cases it is natural and appropriate for those funds to be more focused on their portfolios. But I don’t see that across the entire VC landscape. It is always easy to talk yourself into the idea that the door is currently shut for you. But before you do that, I suggest you knock on it. It may in fact be open.
Date: 2020-04-20T17:53:25

Title: Summer Internships
URL: https://avc.com/2020/04/summer-internships/
Content:
There are so many challenges facing us right now that the smaller things often get overlooked. One of those things is summer internships for students who are focused on a career in tech. Many companies are struggling to stay afloat and have canceled all of their summer internships. That makes total sense as you can’t really consider having summer interns when you are laying off half of your workforce or more. But there are many companies in the tech sector who are going to be able to get through this crisis without major cuts. And I am hoping that they can pick up the slack a bit. Etsy, where I am Chairman, just notified all of their summer interns that they are maintaining the program, but all of the interns will work remotely this summer. That will be challenging for Etsy and the interns, but I am thrilled that Etsy is able to do this. Our portfolio company Cloudflare went a step further last week. They are doubling the number of summer interns they will take . And they are encouraging other companies in a position to do this to follow suit. If you have a summer internship program and are in a financial position to continue it, please consider doing so. A remote internship might not be as great as an in-person one this summer, but it is way better than sitting at home doing nothing.
Date: 2020-04-06T08:24:42

Title: Firefox Better Web (with Scroll)
URL: https://avc.com/2020/03/firefox-better-web-with-scroll/
Content:
Ad blockers are hugely popular. Close to 800mm people around the world use them to avoid intrusive ads and data collection. I do not use an ad-blocker but I completely understand why one would choose to do so. And yet much of the media business is supported by advertising. There are a growing number of subscription-based media services, but many people cannot or won’t pay for content and the vast majority of content consumed on the web is advertising supported. So USV has long felt that a subscription-based ad blocker would make a lot of sense. Ad-supported publications could opt-in to get a piece of the subscription revenue and agree to block ads to the subscribers who have the ad blocker. And that is why we invested in our portfolio company Scroll which makes exactly that. And today, Scroll and Firefox are launching Firefox Better Web , which is a service inside of Firefox ($2.50 a month to start and $5 a month in time). I downloaded the latest version of Firefox this morning and signed up. It went like this: I signed up by giving my email address and entering my payment credentials. And then I added the Scroll browser extension and was good to go. I visited SB Nation and got an ad-free experience. Which compares to this experience in my Chrome browser without Scroll (Scroll works on Chrome too) The partnership between Firefox and Scroll makes a ton of sense. Firefox has long been committed to privacy and making the web work better for its users. If you use Firefox try the Better Web service . And if you use Chrome or another browser, you can get Scroll and experience more or less the same thing there too.
Date: 2020-03-24T11:23:32

Title: Panic With Friends
URL: https://avc.com/2020/03/panic-with-friends/
Content:
My friend Howard Lindzon has started a podcast series called Panic With Friends. It’s about the market meltdown and a lot more. I hope that it turns out to be a short lived series and this panic ends quickly. Episode One was posted today on Howard’s blog. He asked me to do an episode with him and although I been saying no to all podcast requests for the last year or two, I’m going to say yes to this. If we have to panic, it’s best to do it with friends. I will post the episode I do with Howard here. Likely some time next week.
Date: 2020-03-11T19:31:50

Title: The Venture Capital Math Problem Revisited (aka How Could You Be So Wrong?)
URL: https://avc.com/2020/02/the-venture-capital-math-problem-revisited-aka-how-could-you-be-so-wrong/
Content:
Back in 2009, I wrote a post called The Venture Capital Math Problem . I was reminded of it yesterday when I saw this tweet: 1/ It is so damn hard to predict the future. This 2009 piece from @fredwilson (literally the best in the biz) predicted significant venture industry contraction when in fact the last 10yrs have seen massive expansion. https://t.co/B88t5W6yYA — Ben Siscovick (@bsiscovick) February 26, 2020 In that post, I argued that the venture capital business could not sustain more than $20bn a year of new capital coming into it and continue to produce good returns to the investors in VC funds. The venture capital business has been raising north of $50bn per year for much of the last decade and so far, the returns continue to look quite good. So what did I get wrong in my attempt to solve the venture capital math problem? I think it set the problem up correctly but I got one assumption very wrong and it was this: And I assume that the biggest exit each year is $5bn. Yes, it is true that some venture investments turn into businesses like Apple, Google, Microsoft that are worth $100bn and more. But it is also true that most VCs are long gone from those deals before the valuations get to that level. So for the sake of solving this problem, I’d assume the largest exit each year is $5bn and then you have a power law distribution of another 999 deals. …….. I’ll assume that the biggest deal, $5bn, represents 5% of the total value of all 1000 exits and that the total value of all exits is $100bn per year. That was off by maybe an order of magnitude or more. Uber IPO’d at $70bn and still trades at north of $50bn. Zoom is now trading at $32bn. Out of the USV portfolio in the last decade we have Twitter at $26bn, Twilio at $16bn, and MongoDB at almost $10bn and a number of high quality public companies trading in the single digit billions. I suspect that last paragraph that I quoted should read “the biggest deal, $50-100bn, represents 5% of the total value of all exits (likely north of 2000, possibly a lot more) and the total value of all exits is $1-2 trillion per year” By that math, keeping all other assumptions, formulas, and math the same, the max that can be invested in VC is maybe as much as $100bn per year and we are still well below that level based on the numbers I am seeing. So what did I learn from this mistake? I learned that you can’t assume that the past is a predictor of the future. And I learned that it is helpful to ask yourself “what could go right?” instead of “what could go wrong?” It is also true that the last decade has been one of incredibly low interest rates/cost of capital, and conversely very high PE and revenue multiples on growth stocks. And we have seen companies like Uber, Facebook, etc stay private much longer so the VCs have exited at much higher valuations than was once the case. We cannot assume that will continue either and it may well be true that the $50bn-$100bn that is going into the venture capital business right now will not get the same returns that the $20bn that was going into the venture capital business in 2009 has gotten. But regardless, I was dead wrong in that post back in 2009 and I have learned from it. As I have aged, I tend to underwrite to the upside not the downside. That has not been my nature but I have learned that it works better, particularly in the VC business. Finally, I do not regret writing that post one bit. As I replied to Ben’s tweet when I saw it: One of so many bad calls I've made over the years. All public. All available for critique. But I can, and do, learn from my mistakes and so can anyone else because I've made them in public. — Fred Wilson (@fredwilson) February 27, 2020
Date: 2020-02-27T12:09:50

Title: Tech Jobs For All Who Want Them
URL: https://avc.com/2020/02/tech-jobs-for-all-who-want-them/
Content:
The tech sector is the fastest growing sector of the economy in NYC and around the US and around the world. The tech sector offers high paying jobs and a growing number of them. But, as we all know, the tech sector lacks the gender and racial diversity that would allow everyone to benefit from this growing sector of the economy. Most of the studies that have looked at the lack of diversity point to a skills gap standing in the way. So last year Tech:NYC (where I am co-chair) and a few large employers (Google, Verizon, Bloomberg LP) and the Robin Hood Learning and Technology Fund commissioned a study of the skills training programs in NYC to see where there are gaps and what must be done to close them so that tech jobs are available to everyone in NYC who wants one. This report was done by the Center for an Urban Future and was released yesterday. You can read it here . What the report reveals is that NYC has a rich and expanding ecosystem of tech skills training opportunities, including K-12 and adult education. But, as we all know, the quality is uneven and so are the outcomes. The report makes twelve recommendations which are detailed here. They are: 1. Make a significant new public investment in expanding and improving New York City’s tech education and training ecosystem. 2. Set clear and ambitious goals to greatly expand the pipeline of New Yorkers into technology careers. 3. Prioritize long-term investments in K–12 computing education. 4. Scale up tech training with a focus on programs that develop in-depth, career-ready skills. 5. Build the pipeline of educators and facilitators serving both K–12 and career readiness efforts. 6. Close the geographic gaps in tech education and skills-building programs. 7. New York City’s tech sector should play a larger role in developing, recruiting, and retaining diverse talent. 8. Increase access to tech apprenticeships and paid STEM internships through industry partnerships, CS4All, and the city’s current Summer Youth Employment Program. 9. Expand efforts to market STEM programs to underrepresented students and their families. 10. Develop and fund links from the numerous computer literacy and basic digital skills-building programs to the in-depth programs that can lead to employment. 11. Expand the number of bridge programs to provide crucial new on-ramps to further tech education and training for New Yorkers with fundamental skills needs. 12. Develop major new supports for the non-tuition costs of adult workforce training. I participated on the advisory board of this study and support all of these recommendations. Elected officials and policy makers in NYC (and really everywhere) should read and heed these recommendations. The tech sector faces many headwinds in society right now for a host of reasons. Not all of them can be solved by an employee base that mirrors the planet. But many of them can be and we need to work to get there. I want to thank the Center For An Urban Future, Tech:NYC, Robin Hood Learning and Technology Fund, Google, Verizon, and Bloomberg LP for giving us a roadmap on how to get there.
Date: 2020-02-13T08:55:56

Title: Funding Friday: Walsun Fingerprint Bike Lock
URL: https://avc.com/2020/01/funding-friday-walsun-fingerprint-bike-lock/
Content:
I don’t usually take a reward when backing a Kickstarter project, but I really need one of these fingerprint bike locks so I did today when I backed it.
Date: 2020-01-31T09:43:39

Title: Funding Friday: The Thinker Lamp
URL: https://avc.com/2020/01/funding-friday/
Content:
I love this project and backed it instantly when a friend showed it to me last week.
Date: 2020-01-17T10:21:50

Title: What To Work On
URL: https://avc.com/2020/01/what-to-work-on/
Content:
My partner Brad likes to ask about the distinction between doing things right and doing the right thing. His observation, which I totally agree with, is that many people and companies do things right but don’t do the right thing. Taking the observation one step further, I have seen that doing the right thing the wrong way can actually result in something important and successful whereas doing the wrong thing the right way rarely does. So that begs the question “what should I work on?” First and foremost, I believe we should all work on projects that interest us, where we have insights that others don’t have, and that motivate and inspire us and others. I also think that working on something that meets this first test is necessary but not sufficient. Beyond that test, which is a must, I believe we should be working on something that can have a large impact. Coming from a venture capitalist, I am sure many people will read that as “make a lot of money.” But that is not what I mean. Impact can be measured by money. But it can also be measured by the number of people that will use your product or service. It can be measured by how it changes the way people think and how they react to your product or service or innovation. Even if Tesla fails as a company (which I do not think will happen), they have changed the way the automobile industry operates forever. That is an example of impact. And then a third very important thing is how you are going to address the problem, how you are going to market, how you are going to make money (the business model), and how you are going to defend your market position and business. This is often where the magic is. Let’s say you have an insight on how to use video to deliver education to young people to significantly improve learning. You could build a business that delivers that technology to the existing school system. Or you could build a business that goes directly to the students and bypasses the existing school system. These are two very different “go to market” strategies, they imply two very different business models, and they will result in very different long term market positions. Your choices on “how” will ultimately define your work more than anything and getting this right is so critical. A lot of entrepreneurs ask me for help in figuring out what to work on. I tell them that I can’t tell them what to work on. That has to come from within and nobody can give it to you. But I can give you a framework because choosing what to invest in is a lot like choosing what to work on. One is an investment of money (and time). The other is an investment of time and yourself. The latter is such a larger investment and the risks are much higher. But the framework is similar. You must work on something that inspires you and others, you must work on something with a significant impact, and you must do it in a way that makes getting where you want to go as easy as possible and keeps you there as long as possible.
Date: 2020-01-05T10:59:42

Title: What Christmas Means To Me
URL: https://avc.com/2019/12/what-christmas-means-to-me/
Content:
I really like Stevie Wonder’s song from the late 60s written by Anna Gordy Gaye, George “Horgay” Gordy and Allen Story. The song lays out what Christmas means; candles burning low, mistletoe, snow and ice, carols right outside my door. I grew up celebrating Christmas and it was always a special time for me and my family. Decorating the tree, midnight mass, Christmas dinner, and gifts. I remember it fondly. When the Gotham Gal and I decided to raise our family Jewish, I negotiated for and got Christmas. And for the many years, our family celebrated Christmas mostly the way I celebrated it as a child. In recent years, with adult children and travel and many other things, celebrating Christmas has become optional. Some years we do it. Many years we don’t. But Christmas retains a special place in my soul. Christmas means family, it means winter (we got six inches of snow last night), and it means birth. A feeling of hope and optimism going into the new year. As Stevie sings in that wonderful song: I wish you merry Christmas baby Oh and such happiness in the coming year, oh baby That is what I wish for all of you and your families on this wonderful day. Merry Christmas.
Date: 2019-12-25T09:39:59

Title: Having Kids
URL: https://avc.com/2019/12/having-kids/
Content:
Paul Graham wrote a blog post this week about having kids . I read it with interest because I have long noticed that having kids has had a profound and positive effect on Paul. So I was interested in what he had to say on the topic. I am not going to summarize what he said, you can read it here , but suffice it to say that he has found it to be an very positive experience. The Gotham Gal and I had children fairly early in our marriage and we had three children before I started Flatiron Partners in 1996. That was mostly driven by Joanne as she pushed for having kids early and I went along with that plan. When founders and other executives ask the Gotham Gal when is the right time to have kids, she always says “now” and explains that there will never be a good time to have kids so you might as well get on with it. In my experience, that is good advice for a lot of reasons. Having young children is demanding and the younger you are, the easier it is to manage all of those demands. I also believe that having children teaches you things you can’t learn any other way and that those lessons are incredibly valuable in other parts of your life, including your work life. In my line of work, I have to work with hard charging willful entrepreneurs who won’t take orders from anyone (nor should they). Having children and learning how to work with them when we are not on the same page has helped me a lot with entrepreneurs. Children have taught me to be patient, to care, and be present (something that has been a challenge for me over the years). Those are things that are extremely valuable in all walks of life. But certainly the best thing of all about having kids is the children themselves. I have a lot of relationships in my life, but the relationships I have with my wife and children are the very best ones. Just getting a text from one of my kids is often the highlight of my day. So if you are struggling with the question of when to have kids, I side with the Gotham Gal on this. Do it now. It will be the greatest thing you do and it will change your life. Like it did for Paul.
Date: 2019-12-15T10:39:35

Title: Digital Money
URL: https://avc.com/2019/12/digital-money/
Content:
I was listening to this podcast on the treadmill this morning. It is a conversation between Peter McCormack and Andreas Antonopoulos about Bitcoin, Privacy, Freedom, and a lot more. At one point Andreas says that we have digital money already, but it is largely debits and credits on ledgers in banks and other financial services companies. He also says that cash is currently only about 8% of global money and that number has been going down steadily over the last fifty years as digital money has taken over. His point, and it is a good one, is that cash is decentralized money. But money that is registered on a ledger maintained by a corporation that is highly regulated by the government is an entirely different thing. After listening to the podcast, I bought some more Bitcoin this morning.
Date: 2019-12-03T09:22:17

Title: Video Of The Week: The Recount Recap
URL: https://avc.com/2019/11/video-of-the-week-the-recount-recap/
Content:
I wrote a bit about our investment in Recount Media last month . I have found their daily videos that give me what I need to know in five minutes or less a godsend. This past week was a blur for me as I was on the go all week and could not catch up on anything. So to be able to get a sense of Wednesday night’s debate on my phone on the subway between meetings was so great. Here is that video: If you want to get more videos like this, you can download the Recount iOS app and/or sign up for their videos delivered via a daily email. You can also follow the Recount on Twitter , Instagram , and YouTube .
Date: 2019-11-23T08:30:32

Title: No Shenanigans
URL: https://avc.com/2019/11/no-shenanigans/
Content:
I was talking to a friend today about company values and how important they are but also how lame so many of them are. I told him that some of my favorite company values come from our former portfolio company Twilio (which in the spirit of full disclosure I am still a large shareholder of). Twilio’s founder and CEO Jeff Lawson gave a great talk on company values at USV a few years ago and explained how he approached them. This blog post (and audio post ) is about a similar talk he gave at First Round. Twilio’s company values are shown below: My favorite of them is “No Shenanigans” which translates to “Be thoughtful. Always deal in an honest, direct, and transparent way.” It is such a great value. It is memorable. It is broadly applicable. It is interpretable. And I can imagine team members running their decisions against it and getting a helpful result that guides them. That is what company values are all about at the end of the day – helping people make decisions that everyone in the company will be proud of and supportive of. Like most things that are incredibly valuable, values are not easy to get right, but they are worth investing a lot of time and energy in.
Date: 2019-11-12T13:49:51

Title: Video Of The Week: Filecoin and Web3
URL: https://avc.com/2019/11/video-of-the-week-filecoin-and-web3/
Content:
In this video, Juan Benet, founder of our portfolio company Protocol Labs, talks about how Web3 is coming together and what Filecoin and IPFS’s role in it will be.
Date: 2019-11-02T10:08:45

Title: The Access Act
URL: https://avc.com/2019/10/the-access-act/
Content:
Yesterday three Senators, Democrats Mark Warner (VA) and Richard Blumenthal (CT) and Republican Sen. Josh Hawley (MO), put forward new legislation aimed at opening up the markets in web services. Their proposed legislation is called The Access Act and you can read it in its entirety here . First let me say that this is exactly the kind of regulation we need to deal with the growing monopoly powers of companies like Apple, Google, Facebook, Amazon, etc, etc. When Liz Warren came out with her idea to breakup these large monopolies, I wrote here that I thought that would turn out to be bad policy and ineffective. I came back to this issue when Liz starting breaking out of the pack and leading the race to run against the President next year. As I said in both of those blog posts, it is my view that the monopoly powers that Google, Facebook, Apple, Amazon, etc have do not stem from their size and market reach, they stem from the data monopolies they own about us and our online activities. Breaking these companies up into smaller parts does not solve that problem. As my partner Albert observed in a blog post last week , spinning Instagram out of Facebook will do nothing to reduce Instagram’s market power, which is massive in its own right. What we need to do is to allow any company, large or small, to compete on a level playing field with these large monopolies and they way to do that is to force them to open up their platforms and data so that competitors can provide similar services. Senator Mark Warner put out a long tweetstorm yesterday laying out the ideas behind this bill and I would like to highlight a few of them here. Back in 2001, the FCC recognized that interoperability was key to competition and required then-dominant AOL to make its instant messaging service compatible with its competitors. https://t.co/vYMj5ShW63 — Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) October 22, 2019 And The ACCESS Act has three main components that would apply to the largest tech platforms: 1. Portability 2. Interoperability 3. Delegatability Here’s what that means in plain English: — Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) October 22, 2019 First, consumers ought to have the ability to switch social media platforms and other online services without having to start from scratch. This idea of data portability would allow you to take all your data ~ including your cat videos ~ and move it to a different service. — Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) October 22, 2019 Second, for data portability to really make a difference, we need to break down the anti-competitive barriers that companies put up to limit their competitors from interacting with their platforms. This is the idea behind interoperability, the open exchange of information. — Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) October 22, 2019 Third, we need to preserve delegatability — the idea that consumers should be able to allow a third-party service to manage their privacy settings across multiple platforms. — Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) October 22, 2019 I am excited about all three of these ideas and they work together. You can’t do just one of them. But I am most excited about the third, delegation. My partner Albert calls this “the right to be represented by a bot” and it is critical to making all of this work. Just when you thought government was lost and useless, someone inside the walls of power in Washington steps up and puts forward a set of ideas like this and you think “well someone actually gets it.” I am deeply grateful to Senators Warner, Blumenthal, and Hawley (and their staffs where so much of this work gets done) for their leadership here. Finally, one complaint. The bill defines a term “large communications platform” and that is the entity it seeks to regulate. As currently defined in the bill, a service would have to have 100mm monthly active users to be considered a large communications platform. That number is way to high in my view. We ought to regulate companies in this way at much smaller sizes. 10mm MAUs is where I would start requiring this sort of thing and maybe ratchet up the requirements as they scale to 50mm, 100mm, and beyond. But all of that can get sorted out as this bill is discussed, debated, and hopefully eventually made into law. I hope Liz and the other candidates out there who want to use old techniques on new markets will read their colleagues’ bill, understand its importance, and start changing their tune on this issue. It is too important to get wrong.
Date: 2019-10-23T01:58:24

Title: Video Of The Week: The Dangers Of A Centralized Internet
URL: https://avc.com/2019/10/video-of-the-week-the-dangers-of-a-centralized-internet/
Content:
Amir Haleem, founder and CEO of USV portfolio company Helium , gave this talk last year and it explains why he started Helium.
Date: 2019-10-12T03:34:07

Title: Our Helium Hotspot
URL: https://avc.com/2019/10/our-helium-hotspot/
Content:
Back in June I wrote about a company we recently invested in called Helium. Helium is creating a decentralized low power and low bandwidth wireless network for the exploding number of smart devices out in the world. We got our hotspot yesterday and I connected it this morning and we are now providing bandwidth in Manhattan and earning Helium tokens as a result.
Date: 2019-10-02T06:50:56

Title: Breaking Up Big Tech
URL: https://avc.com/2019/09/breaking-up-big-tech/
Content:
With the news that two-thirds of Americans favor breaking up big tech combined with the news that Liz Warren (the biggest advocate of the idea) has broken out of the pack in Iowa , I thought I would return to this topic. I wrote about this back when Liz first put the idea forward. I am in favor of reigning in the monopoly/duopoly/oligopoly power of the large American tech companies. I am also in favor of reigning in the power of large tech companies that are not resident in the US. Doing one without the other is bad policy and could give large tech companies outside of the US (particularly in Asia) a competitve advantage. A better approach, as I advocated for in my earlier post on this topic, are policies, like the European’s GDPR, that would impact all companies doing business in the US equally. I do not love GDPR. It is overly bureaucratic and for the most part has resulted in all of us robotically opting into being cookied everywhere. But users do have a right to online privacy. We also have a right to self sovereign identity and ownership of our data. Apple is offering Sign In With Apple in iOS13 to help us reduce our reliance on signing in with Facebook and Google. That’s great but it just replaces one boogyman with another. What we need is an open sign-in protocol in which users control their sign-in keys and also all of the data we create and have created over the years once we are signed in. Government can force industry into a regime like that with regulations that dictate that tech companies of all sizes adopt such approaches. That is what we should be doing to reduce the market power of big tech instead of breaking them up. That is because their market power comes from this single sign-on oligopoly and the data that comes with it. Government should not dictate the design of such a protocol or any of the technology that is required to produce such a regime. The market can and will do that once the requirements are put in place. We have much of what we need already in the form of cryptography and user centric wallet infrastructure. We just need a forcing function to get big tech to adopt these technologies, which they won’t do on their own because they will reduce their market powers. Which is exactly why we need to do this.
Date: 2019-09-22T08:07:04

Title: September 11th
URL: https://avc.com/2019/09/september-11th-4/
Content:
We were having breakfast in lower Manhattan that morning before a board meeting. It was the CEO, another board member and me. We were sitting outside in a sidewalk cafe in lower Soho and the plane flew right over us, at a height that was clearly not normal, and banked and slammed right into the first tower. The CEO knew right away it was a terrorist act and we quickly settled up and headed over to the company’s offices. We told everyone to go home that could go home, and then waited to see how many people would arrive at work. Once we had sent everyone home who could go home, we got everyone who could not go home and started walking uptown to our house in Chelsea. We invited everyone in to our home and went out and got sandwiches and made a buffet lunch. Nobody did anything but watch TV and call their loved ones, if they could get a call out on the overloaded cell networks. By evening everyone had made plans for the night or figured out how to get home. It was a horrible day, one that I certainly will never forget, and one that changed everything in many ways. But when I look back at it, the ability to take everyone in, feed them, and provide some community and comfort, made that day a lot easier for me and my family. I am grateful for that.
Date: 2019-09-11T08:39:08

Title: Scaling In Lower Cost Locations
URL: https://avc.com/2019/09/scaling-in-lower-cost-locations/
Content:
This is a topic I’ve written about a bunch over the years. I feel like it is becoming more urgent every day. Last week I heard some shocking numbers about salary levels for certain kinds of engineers in the bay area. I checked them out with a few of our bay area portfolio companies and they were more or less corroborated. The tight technical labor markets in the bay area, NYC, and a number of other regions in the US are making it hard to scale software businesses without burning massive amounts of cash. At the same time, we see a growing number of our portfolio companies succeeding with scaling engineering/technical teams in secondary labor markets in the US, as well as going outside of the US to build engineering locations. I feel that the ability to spin up and then successfully operate remote engineering locations is a skill that technology companies need to develop earlier in their development than used to be the case. It seems to me that once you get to 100-200 people (or 50+ engineers), you should be thinking about this. The most important thing is not where you put your first remote location. The most important thing is learning how to do this successfully. Because once you can do it in one location, you most likely can do it successfully in multiple locations. This post explains how Stripe (a USV portfolio company) started with remote engineering hubs in Seattle, Dublin, and Singapore, and then evolved into a structure that supports remote workers anywhere. The move from a centralized engineering structure to a decentralized one is a process and takes time to get right. And so I think it is best to start building those capabilities long before they become necessary.
Date: 2019-09-01T06:50:37

Title: The Virtue Of Patience
URL: https://avc.com/2019/08/the-virtue-of-patience/
Content:
Our portfolio company Duolingo is known for their super popular language learning app. According to Wikipedia over 300mm people all over the world have used Duolingo. Back in May 2014, Duolingo launched something called the Duolingo Test Center . The idea was to compete with expensive and inconvenient foreign language tests like TOEFL. It makes sense. If you are in the business of helping people learn a foreign language, you might as well be in the business of helping people demonstrate their mastery of a foreign language. But there is a “chicken and egg” problem in the foriegn language testing market. If you don’t have a lot of test takers, it is hard to get your test accepted by educational institutions and corporations. But if you aren’t accepted by educational institutions and corporations, it is hard to get anyone to take your test. Duolingo has been patient, largely because they have a primary business that is doing incredibly well. Slowly but surely they have gotten institutions to accept their test. I saw this tweet this morning from Luis, Duolingo’s founder and CEO: Super proud that the Duolingo English Test ( @DuolingoENTest ) is now fully accepted as a proof of English proficiency at 10 of the top 20 US universities according to US News. — Luis von Ahn (@LuisvonAhn) August 21, 2019 That is the kind of adoption that Duolingo’s tests need to become a standard. And once you become a standard, you have a fantastic business, largely because it is so hard to accomplish that. Many companies would have given up on a project like this. The payoff is too long and the effort too high. But Luis has a personal interest in this offering. You can read about it in the blog post when he announced the service. That is the power of founders on a mission. They can be patient and see things through that big companies never will. There is a virtue in patience. You don’t see it that much in business. But it is powerful in the right hands.
Date: 2019-08-22T07:59:21

Title: Awesome Features That I Did Not Know About: Version Management In Google Sheets
URL: https://avc.com/2019/08/awesome-features-that-i-did-not-know-about-version-management-in-google-sheets/
Content:
One of the joys of using technology for me is discovering awesome features that I did not know about. This happens to me every so often and always brings a smile to my face. So I thought I’d blog about this when it happens to me. This recently happened with version management in Google Sheets. When I work with a big spreadsheet, I always worry about making some change and messing the entire thing up. I have been using spreadsheets since Lotus123 and have messed up many a spreadsheet. So I like to make copies of my work regularly so I have something to roll back to. Sometime in the last few weeks, I accidentally deleted a row and could not undo it. So I searched for “version management in Google Sheets” and got this one box answer: This works for all Google apps but is particularly valauble for Google Sheets. So now I can stop saving my work regularly. Google is doing that for me. Awesome.
Date: 2019-08-12T07:20:27

Title: Funding Friday: Bellwether
URL: https://avc.com/2019/08/funding-friday-bellwether/
Content:
I saw this project this morning and backed it immediately. Bellwether is Sam Greenspan ‘s next project (after doing 99% Invisible for five years). Bellwether is about the future and what might happen. It is half journalism and half sci-fi storytelling. And it is delivered via 30min podcast episodes. Finally, Sam has stated that he cares more about building a community around this project than the money he’s raising and so he will not consider this project a successful Kickstarter campaign unless he reaches 1000 backers or more. He’s at 652 as of this morning.
Date: 2019-08-01T20:23:20

Title: When Things Just Start Working Again
URL: https://avc.com/2019/07/when-things-just-start-working-again/
Content:
Several times this week something that was not working magically started working again through no intervention of mine. I find this to be very frustrating. I would almost rather something stay broken than magically fix itself. First, I enjoy fixing things. I’m an engineer, a tinkerer, and I get great satisfaction out of debugging/troubleshooting/fixing things. It is such a great feeling when you figure it out and it works again. And second, when something fixes itself, you don’t know what did the trick and if it breaks again, you won’t be able to easily fix it. For the same reasons, when we call an expert to fix something, I always ask them what broke and how they fixed it so I can do that the next time. It isn’t that I actually want to fix it next time, but I certainly want to be able to if I have to. I know plenty of people in my life who don’t feel this way. They just want things to work and don’t really care why or how they do. But I am not wired up that way.
Date: 2019-07-23T13:25:43

Title: Video Of The Week: Fireside Chat With Brian Armstrong
URL: https://avc.com/2019/07/video-of-the-week-fireside-chat-with-brian-armstrong/
Content:
Back in May, during Blockchain Week in NYC, I had the pleasure of interviewing the CEO of our portfolio company Coinbase , Brian Armstrong . We started off talking about their rapidly growing institutional business, but quickly got to talking about everything Coinbase. Brian also gets a question in for me about 17mins into the talk. It’s about 10 minutes of me asking Brian questions and then another 20 minutes of Q&A from the audience.
Date: 2019-07-13T09:34:33

Title: A Blast From The Past
URL: https://avc.com/2019/07/a-blast-from-the-past-2/
Content:
I saw this in my twitter feed today. Almost a decade ago, my friend John Heilemann interviewed John Doerr and me at Web 2.0. It is interesting to go back a decade and see what we were talking about then. Some of the same issues exist today. Some of the questions we debated have been answered now. It’s about forty minutes long.
Date: 2019-07-03T07:23:35

Title: Pixel Slate RIP
URL: https://avc.com/2019/06/pixel-slate-rip/
Content:
I got a Pixel Slate last December and wrote several blog posts about it at the time. I use it when I travel and just spent two and a half weeks with it as my only computing device other than my phone. It is fantastic on an airplane as it is equally great for watching video and doing work (on or offline). At the tail end of that two and a half week stretch I read that Google has decided to stop making Pixel Slates. It will continue to support the current devices but will not come out with a new model. This means the Slate is a dead platform and that I will need to find another answer for my travel tablet needs. I’m not eager to get an iPad Pro and will probably continue to use the Slate until I find a better answer. This bums me out. I like the Slate. It has its issues. But I think Google could have easily addressed them over time. We need competition to the iPad in the tablet market and Google was on its way with Slate.
Date: 2019-06-23T19:33:23

Title: Cloudflare's Galileo Project Turns Five
URL: https://avc.com/2019/06/cloudflares-galileo-project-turns-five/
Content:
Our portfolio company Cloudflare provides a suite of mission critical security services, and increasingly other services too, in the cloud to their customers. Among the most well known of these security services is DDOS protection (aka denial of service attack protection). A DDOS attack is a massive traffic burst aimed at a website to take of offline. Among the most vulnerable and attacked websites are those belonging to non-profits and other organizations doing work that upsets those in power. So Project Galileo is Cloudflare’s effort to provide security services to these sorts of organizations for free so they can stay online and continue to do their work. And Galileo turns five years old this week. Matthew Prince, Cloudflare’s CEO and co-founder, wrote this blog post yesterday celebrating five years of Galileo and he explains why this is so important to Cloudflare, the Internet, and the world.
Date: 2019-06-13T10:49:38

Title: Open Up Vs Break Up
URL: https://avc.com/2019/06/open-up-vs-break-up/
Content:
There have been many calls to break up the large Internet monopolies; Amazon, Google, Facebook, Apple, etc. Breaking up a large monopoly feels like a very 19th/20th century move to me. I would prefer that politicians and policy makers think about opening up as the better intervention. A good way to explain this is to go back to the architecture that Twitter used in its early days when there were many third-party Twitter clients. Imagine if Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc were protocols, not applications, and there were many high-quality clients to participate in these networks. Then the clients could innovate on things like content filtering, promotion of high quality content, business model, etc If we are going to “break up” these large social media platforms, I would urge elected officials and regulators to think about pushing them to move from platforms to protocols instead of just ripping them apart. We could do the same thing with search. Our portfolio company DuckDuckGo has built a nice search business by building a different user interface on top of one of the two leading search indexes. If we made it easier and reliable for others to innovate on top of the core search engine, then there might be many more options in search. In mobile, a good first step is to open up the app stores and allow the browsers to have the same access to the operating system as native mobile apps. In commerce, if I could checkout as easily everywhere as easily as I can on Amazon, there would be more competition for my shopping dollars. I think you get the idea. It is very true that the big Internet services have built centralized monopolies and have consolidated their market positions. We do need more competition in these core services. And the best way to do that is force them to open up their services, not break them up.
Date: 2019-06-03T07:15:19

Title: Funding Friday: Planetary Blocks
URL: https://avc.com/2019/05/funding-friday-planetary-blocks/
Content:
I backed this project to make a block toys for kids based on the planetary system a few weeks ago. I am into anything that makes learning fun for kids and this definitely does that. You can back it here .
Date: 2019-05-24T06:26:14

Title: Exploring An Investment Thesis
URL: https://avc.com/2019/05/exploring-an-investment-thesis/
Content:
I remember back in the 2005/2006/2007 time frame when blogging and social media was coming of age, I used this blog as a petri dish to explore ideas like influencer marketing, social advertising, and virality that have become critical parts of a growth marketer’s playbook a decade later. That “hacking around in social media” taught me so much that I could not have learned reading or talking to people. Of course, I did those things too, but getting my hands dirty with the technology and ideas helped me understand them and see the power of them and invest in them before others did. So it is always great to see when other investors are doing the same thing. Dani , one of our awesome analysts at USV, has been exploring the area of “free learning.” She has been writing about it . And she has been hacking around in it too. Yesterday she launched a free learning game you play via text message. I built a game this weekend that you can play over sms. If you text +1 (575) 223-1415 it will enter you into the game and send you some number puzzles. Enjoy and good luck. pic.twitter.com/oX6SVprfCQ — Dani Grant (@thedanigrant) May 13, 2019 She built it on “twilio/node/express/firebase.” I know she also built a version on the Kin Testnet to see how cryptocurrency rewards could impact how students stick with a game like this. I just played a couple rounds of Numberline on my phone and thankfully I got the first two correct. I am quitting while I am ahead. If there was some Kin involved though…….
Date: 2019-05-14T14:22:04

Title: Audio Of The Week: A Chat With My Partner John
URL: https://avc.com/2019/05/audio-of-the-week-a-chat-with-my-partner-john/
Content:
John Buttrick has been a partner at USV for almost a decade. He mostly focuses on financial services but also does a few other things for us. In this chat with John Siracusa , John talks about how he ended up at USV, our investing thesis, and a number of financial services investments he has made and manages for us.
Date: 2019-05-04T06:48:20

Title: Concrete Vs Wood
URL: https://avc.com/2019/04/concrete-vs-wood/
Content:
Our friend Eric sent us an article in the Globe and Mail yesterday about plans to build a 35 to 40 story tower in Vancouver out of wood. Here’s the link to that story but you can’t read it without a subscription. Contrast that to the dominant way we build tall buildings in NYC which is out of concrete, steel, and glass. The reason that a move back to wood based structures is so important is that the concrete structures are huge contributors to greenhouse gases. According to the Globe and Mail article, “concrete construction is responsible for an estimated eight per cent of all carbon emissions worldwide.” The Gotham Gal and I are in the process of making two passive house apartment buildings in Brooklyn based on cross-laminated timber structures with only a small amount of concrete in them. This is a photo of one of them back in December when the CLT structure had just been completed: Our buildings are five or six stories high. The idea that you can make a building of 35 or 40 stories out of CLT and dowel laminated timbers (DLT) is very exciting to me. I believe we can innovate our way out of the climate change mess we are in right now and changing the way we make our homes and offices is a big part of that.
Date: 2019-04-24T09:06:05

Title: Functionality Vs Content
URL: https://avc.com/2019/04/functionality-vs-content/
Content:
I saw some chatter on Twitter this past week about Netflix and Disney in the wake of Disney’s announcement of Disney+: I’m long $dis myself and no $nflx at the moment. That said will never not pay $nflx at current pricing https://t.co/aInOGQQFXZ — Lindzon+ (@howardlindzon) April 12, 2019 Disney’s stock was up 11% on the week And Netflix stock was down 5% on the week Certainly getting into the streaming game will be good for Disney. But I am less sure that content matters that much when it comes to Netflix. A friend of mine shared this with me earlier this week: When I saw that data, I replied to him with this: It is the frustrations of the prior model (interruptive advertising, by appointment consumption, etc) that open the opportunity for the next model Given that the new model, streaming, is well entrenched now, I am not saying that functionality alone will save Netflix or anyone else. But I do believe that the functionality of a service (no ads, binge watching, user interface, curation, notifications, price, etc) are just as important, or possibly more important, than whether or not you can watch The Incredibles on it. And most importantly, it is the frustrations of the prior model, as I mentioned above, that creates the opening for the new model. So if you are working on a new model, for anything (it could be crypto, health care, education, finance, etc, etc), you should look very closely at what are the most annoying and frustrating aspects of the current model and focus on leading with features that remove them.
Date: 2019-04-14T09:14:43

Title: Orthodoxy
URL: https://avc.com/2019/04/orthodoxy/
Content:
I am not a fan of Orthodoxy. I appreciate the power of religion although I am not religious personally. I respect the followers of Allah, Jesus, Moses, Buddha, and other religious figures. I know that the beliefs of religious people give them great comfort and a purpose in life. What I don’t appreciate is when a person of faith believes so deeply that they cannot tolerate beliefs that are different from theirs. I call this Orthodoxy and it has led to wars, horrible crimes, and many other bad things. It is the downside of what is and should be a very positive thing for humanity. We see this same behavior developing in the crypto sector. Bitcoin and other cryptoassets have become a belief system. That is at the core of their value. Why would I give you $5000 of my dollars for one of your Bitcoin? Because I believe in Bitcoin and want to own it. This faith in the value and power of cryptoassets is good. It is necessary for all of the other good things that can come of them. But like religion, there is an Orthodoxy in these communities that borders on obsession and leads some people to be extremely intolerant of any other community or cryptoasset. The crypto community calls these people “maximalists”, a term I don’t like and don’t use. I believe that we will see many cryptoassets emerge to solve different kinds of problems, just as we have seen many different religions develop to serve different groups of people. This diversity is good. It leads to a richness of thought and innovation that moves us forward. If someone wants to believe deeply in one thing and nothing else, we should understand and appreciate it. But when that leads to hatred, nastiness, and ridicule, we should reject it. We should call it out for what it is and we should not accept it.
Date: 2019-04-04T07:54:16

Title: Life In A Constant Stream Of Emails And Meetings
URL: https://avc.com/2019/03/life-in-a-constant-stream-of-emails-and-meetings/
Content:
My colleague Nick wrote a post today about his productivity system . Nick’s system is way more elaborate than mine, but everyone has to find their own way of getting things done. What I found most interesting about Nick’s post is what I put in the headline of this post. Our jobs at USV are a constant stream of emails, many of them hoping to get into the constant stream of meetings we take. Nick put it this way in his post: at the end of the day it all boils down to a single strategy: getting things into my calendar .  The other main thing I try to solve for is simply not forgetting things.  I live in a constant stream of emails and meetings, and it’s easy to forget something important.  So a goal here is to help ensure that I don’t forget things and ultimately, that I’m focused on the most important thing most of the time. Nick mentions my strategy of putting everything that I must do in a given day/week/month into my calendar so that it gets done. That works incredibly well for me and is really my only productivity tool. Nick also mentions our partner Albert’s email technique which I have always wanted to implement and some day will: Albert has a system, which seems to work for him, which is: using a set of predefined gmail filters, clear the inbox daily.  Not the entire inbox, but a few filtered versions (family, USV team, his portfolio companies). I very much like Albert’s approach. It requires writing the right stored queries (gmail filters) and then keeping them up to date (which is the part that gives me pause). But it makes a ton of sense to try to get to inbox zero on the most important parts of your life vs trying to get to inbox zero on everything. No matter how you do it, you have to find a way not to drop balls, certainly the most important balls. And that is easy to do when you are in meetings from 7am to 5pm like I will be today. So whether it is Nick’s approach, mine, Albert’s, or your own, having a system is key. I think it is less important what your system is than having one and sticking to it.
Date: 2019-03-25T09:01:49

Title: Decentralized Finance
URL: https://avc.com/2019/03/decentralized-finance/
Content:
While we wait for the blockchain/crypto technology to scale to the point where it can be the foundation of mainstream consumer applications (games, social media, e-commerce, etc), there is a sector where scalability is a little less important and where blockchain/crypto is starting to show some real signs of life. In the crypto space, it is called Decentralized Finance, or DeFi for short. It includes, of course, all of the ICO activity largely built on top of Ethereum and the ERC-20 token. But it also includes thinks like Maker which is both a stable coin and a collateralized lending sytem. The collateral for the loans is what stablizes the Maker stablecoin. We also are seeing other lending offerings develop in the DeFi world and we are seeing things like hedging, shorting, derivatives, and more, all built on a decentralized platform where there are no intermediaries, no clearinghouses, and the need for trusted third parties is much less, sometimes not at all. This makes sense for a number of reasons. While the transaction requirements of financial services applications are not trivial, they are also not as demanding as mainstream consumer applications where millions of users are transacting with each other and the system in real-time. It is also the case that, unlike many of the new architectures that emerged over the years (mainframe, mini, client-server, web), the blockchain/crypto space has always had money at its core and making money, transacting in money, and everyting that goes along with that has been an early use case and for most people, the driving use case for this technology. All technologies need early use cases. I do not think DeFi will be the only thing that blockchain/crypto is good for. I think we will see blockchains scale in the next few years to allow mainstream consumer applcations to be built. But until then, DeFi is a good place to hang out. It uses all of the same technologies, architectures, and value systems that we have come to know and love in crypto. You can learn to build applications, use applications, and generally come up to speed on the sector while serving real customers, building a business, and, hopefully, making money.
Date: 2019-03-14T11:35:24

Title: Getting Credit
URL: https://avc.com/2019/03/getting-credit/
Content:
Last night CBS 60 Minutes aired a piece about the gender gap in tech and left out a number of important efforts to close the gap. My friend Rob Underwood tweeted this out about that piece: I admire work of my friend @hadip & the org he started, @codeorg . But the incredible, brave (!) @reshmasaujani is absolutely right. Having had a chance to work a bit w/ #CSForAll movement, @60Minutes leaving out contribs of @GirlsWhoCode , @NCWIT , @BlackGirlsCode is unconscionable https://t.co/hKwXLSkVXN — Rob Underwood (@brooklynrob) March 4, 2019 And while I completely agree with Rob that Reshma has built something amazing at Girls Who Code , I also feel that the results she and her organization are getting are what matters the most and so I responded with this: What I have learned from watching my wife ( @thegothamgal ) work on gender equity in startups and my own work on equity in CS education is that you cannot worry about who gets the credit, you have to worry about the results. It makes it easier to stay focused and stay happy — Fred Wilson (@fredwilson) March 4, 2019 Later today, a friend and fantastic entrepreneur sent me a private email arguing that credit is very important and that it is how organizations gain credibility, legitimacy, and support to keep going. Of course she is right. Credit is important. I also got an email from the folks I work with at the NYC public school system pointing out that the NYC public school profiled in the 60 Minutes piece was the beneficiary of the CS4All effort which I have been championing for almost a decade now and that was left entirely out of the story. All of this is unfortunate. There is a very broad coalition of organizations doing incredible work making sure that we have gender and racial equity in STEM education. And we are starting to see the results of all of the work of these groups. It would have been nice to credit a much broader group of organizations and companies. But this happens all the time. USV has been the seed and largest investor and a highly engaged board member in companies that are referred to in the press as an “Andreessen Horowitz backed company” or a “Sequoia backed company” or a some other such characterization. When I see that I flinch a bit but tell myself that it is the company, the founders, and the results that matters and not who invested in it. Success has a thousand mothers and some will get more credit than others. That is the unfortunate truth of success. But if we focus on the success versus the credit then I think we will all be better off.
Date: 2019-03-04T18:13:43

Title: Funding Friday: Sphero RVR
URL: https://avc.com/2019/02/funding-friday-sphero-rvr/
Content:
This is such a cool project . I backed it the minute I saw it.
Date: 2019-02-22T08:48:46

Title: Feedback
URL: https://avc.com/2019/02/feedback/
Content:
Thanks for all of the feedback on yesterday’s post . There have been about 250 comments to date and a similar number of email replies. Not surprisingly the feedback from the email replies was overwhelmingly supportive of removing the comments. It seems that most of the people who read via email don’t wade into the comments. And they email me directly with comments which often leads to a one to one private conversation. The feedback in the comments was overwhelmingly to keep them. And there were lots of strong arguments for that. I did get one email from a reader who told me the ability to engage in the AVC comments helped him get through a difficult time in college. That got my attention. I also got a ton of suggestions on how to modify the comments to make them more manageable (limiting the number and length of comments, limiting the time allowed to post one, charging people to comment, etc). I like that line of thinking a lot but I am limited in terms of what I can do by the Disqus feature set. I will ponder all of this for a bit and let it all sink it. Thanks for taking the time to tell me what you all think.
Date: 2019-02-12T07:50:53

Title: Video Of The Week: Reasons For Optimism
URL: https://avc.com/2019/02/video-of-the-week-reasons-for-optimism/
Content:
My partner Albert gave this talk at DLD 2019 a couple weeks ago.
Date: 2019-02-02T11:35:26

Title: Capitalism and Inequality
URL: https://avc.com/2019/01/capitalism-and-inequality/
Content:
I was talking to a friend about AOC’s proposal to increase marginal federal rates to 70% to fund investments in fighting climate change. My friend said he was disappointed that she didn’t propose a top federal rate of 83.25% so that the marginal rate in NYC would be 100%. He was joking but his remark is important because it speaks to the nuance of the marginal rate, something AOC and her followers don’t really understand as much as they claim. It reminds me of a heated conversation I had with my kids and their friends during our family ski trip over the year end break. Our kids, like most millennials I know, are struggling with the notion of capitalism at any cost and the massive income and wealth inequality that we are witnessing. This headline I came across on Twitter today kind of sums it up well: . @AOC : Economic system that allows billionaires is “immoral” https://t.co/qINA2oXiwu pic.twitter.com/Z3mSVRXuti — The Hill (@thehill) January 22, 2019 I am in the business of helping founders start companies which results in some of them becoming billionaires. Contrary to what some think, my wife and I aren’t in that club ourselves. But I know a fair number of billionaires and I have had a front row seat to the process of them going from not having a penny in their pockets to billions on their balance sheet. And we are participants in the “economic system that creates billionaires.” I do not think it is immoral and I do not think billionaires are immoral. I do think the inequality that we allow in our country is immoral. To me, these are two different things. And that is the gist of the discussion I was having with my kids and their friends over the year end holiday. They asked me why I don’t believe in massively raising taxes on the rich to pay for all of these new social programs that the candidates on the left are proposing. I am a fan of many of these social programs, like medical care for all, like more affordable education for all, like new approaches to what we once called “welfare” and now is taking shape as Universal Basic Income. I have been called a communist, a socialist, a liberal, and more on this blog and all of those labels could be accurate in someone’s mind. I believe that society must find ways to support the basic needs of everyone, which include wellness, knowledge, and income. That we do not is immoral. That we allow billionaires is not. I am a capitalist and a business person. I understand that increasing taxes on the wealthiest leads many of them to move their income and assets to lower tax jurisdictions and can be counter productive, particularly when you go beyond a certain threshold. I also understand that government is bloated and there are many places where we could cut spending to fund these new innovative programs that could help counter the immoral wealth imbalance we have in our country. I believe that technological revolutions, like the industrial revolution and the information revolution, create opportunities for entrepreneurs to reimagine how the economy should operate. Those entrepreneurs, like Rockefeller, Carnegie, Morgan, Bezos, Page, Zuckerberg, build very powerful monopolies and amass billions. As these revolutions reimagine how the economy should operate, many people lose jobs, can’t find jobs, find themselves in lower paying jobs, and there is real dislocation that results. And you get this “immoral wealth imbalance.” The one part of the economy that seems immune to re-imagination is the government. If we were to force it to go through the same technological revolution that the private sector is going through, we would see massive efficiencies, and massive job losses, that would free up a huge amount of capital that could be used to pay for things like medical care for all, affordable education for all, and some amount of income for all. That is what I am for. That is what I explained to my kids and their friends that I am for. Times of change are times of change. And we can’t change some things but not everything. I will end with a story from a book I read a few years ago. The book is called The Prize that was written by Dale Russakoff and is about the effort by Chris Christie, Cory Booker, and Mark Zuckerberg to fix the broken Newark NJ public school system. The story takes place at an anti-charter school rally. Dale meets a woman who is protesting against the charter schools that are replacing the district schools. As she is talking to this woman, she explains that she is late to the rally because she had to spend all morning in line trying to get her child into the new charter school in her neighborhood. Dale is perplexed. Why would she be protesting charter schools if she is that committed to getting her child into one? The woman explains that most of her family works in the district schools and will lose their jobs if the city moves to charter schools. And that’s where we are. We are not willing to move away from the things of the past to get the things of the future. So our elected officials decide to try to give us both and we struggle with how to pay for it all. I am not for the emerging progressive Robin Hood narrative. I am certainly not for the entrenched conservative Let Them Eat Cake narrative. I am for a new narrative that understands that everything must change if we are to find ways to support everyone in our society.
Date: 2019-01-23T09:19:03

Title: Cause Or Effect?
URL: https://avc.com/2019/01/cause-or-effect/
Content:
In the wake of Erin Griffith’s piece in the NY Times suggesting that venture capital is toxic for some entrepreneurs, there has been a fair bit of debate about the causes of that situation. Dan Primack tweeted this yesterday: One thing that I think gets lost in the VC vs. non-VC discussion is that VCs don't need a company to become a "unicorn." At least not the early-stage VCs. They might want it, but unicorns weren't really a thing until a few years back, and VCs "settled" for much shorter home runs — Dan Primack (@danprimack) January 11, 2019 I pushed back on that notion in a series of tweets yesterday morning: I think the truth is somewhere in between. Ownership levels have been coming down in VC over the last thirty years. When I got into VC in the mid 80s it was very typical for a VC to want 25% of the company. Then it became 20%. Then 15%. Now we ask ourselves if we can get to 10% — Fred Wilson (@fredwilson) January 12, 2019 It is tempting to look at what is going on in the startup/tech landscape and say that the growing amount of capital under management is the problem. But the capital market for startups is a complex system and I don’t think it is as simple as that. It may well be that as entrepreneurs have had more negotiating leverage over the last twenty+ years, they have pushed valuations up significantly and the capital markets (ie VCs) have reacted to that by accumulating more capital so that they can try to buy the same amount of ownership at the higher prices. That hasn’t really worked and the VC industry typically owns a lot less of a company at exit and the founders and team own a lot more versus 25 years ago. We have seen that clearly in our own portfolios over the last fifteen years and I would assume that is true across the industry. So while it is tempting to suggest that big bad VCs are the reason for all the problems in the startup sector, I would caution everyone from coming to that conclusion. Like all relationships, it takes two to tango, and both sides have had something to do with where we are right now.
Date: 2019-01-13T11:16:22

Title: Scratch 3
URL: https://avc.com/2019/01/scratch-3/
Content:
As many of you know, I have been spending a fair bit of my time on K12 Computer Science Education over the last decade. The good news is that over that time period, there has been massive progress in getting computer science into our K12 schools in the US. And if I had to pick one single thing that has been the biggest catalyst for that, I’d point to Scratch , the brainchild of Mitchel Resnick and his Lifelong Kindergarten lab at MIT’s Media Lab. Yesterday was a big day for Scratch, and therefore, for K12 CS Education around the world. The Scratch team launched Scratch 3, a major release which brings a number of important new features and functions to Scratch. Here is the Scratch Team’s blog post on Scratch 3 . The three big improvements to Scratch in this new release are: 1/ Scratch everywhere. It used to be that you could only run Scratch in a browser. Now you can run it on touch devices like tablets. This is a big deal as many early elementary school classrooms tend to use tablets not computers. 2/ Extensions. The Scratch team has made Scratch extensible via a new element called Extensions. Examples of Extensions are the Lego Mindstorms Extension, or the Google Translate Extension, or the Amazon Text to Speech Extension. I am excited to see all of the amazing Extensions that will get built using this new feature. 3/ New characters, sounds, and backgrounds. Most kids use Scratch to build games, animations, and other fun experiences. Scratch is fun!!! So Scratch 3 brings a massive expansion of creative elements that kids can use to create the things they want to make. Obviously Scratch can’t and won’t be used to make things like operating systems, machine learning models, transaction processing systems, etc, etc. But the people who will be building those things in the next ten years will have likely gotten into programming via Scratch. Scratch is the on-ramp to computational thinking, coding, programming, and whatever word you want to describe the essence of computer science education. It makes something that seems so daunting really fun and approachable. And that is why I think it is the single biggest catalyst for K12 Computer Science Education. And it just got a lot more fun and a lot more powerful.
Date: 2019-01-03T11:18:50

Title: Pocket
URL: https://avc.com/2018/12/pocket/
Content:
I recently wrote about my new Pixel Slate . There is a lot I like about it and plenty more that I’m getting used to. I touched on most of that in my blog post. I am writing this post on my Slate using the Slate Keyboard (you can see it in the left of the photo below. One thing that I am totally smitten with is reading web content on it. The screen is big and crisp and it feels great in the hands. It’s like a huge phone, which is the device that I have been doing most of my reading on. If you look at the bottom of the screen, you will see four icons; Chrome, Calendar, Gmail, and the fourth is Pocket. I have just started using Pocket . It used to be called Read It Later and it was developed by Nate Weiner. Pocket was bought by Mozilla in 2017. I selected Pocket because both of my daughters use it and several colleagues at USV do too. While I have mostly been reading web content on my phone, I come across it in many places (email, twitter, google discover, reddit, hacker news, techmeme, etc) on all of my various devices . Believe it or not, I have typically stopped what I was doing and read it when I saw the link, or I would email the link to myself and read it later in my mail client on my phone. But now that I have this Slate where I want to try and read all of my web content on, I am drawn to a service that exists on all of my devices (phone, desktop, laptop) and can collect all of the links and let me read them in one place. So I am going to finally try and make the switch to a “read it later” service, something many of you have been doing for years now. I do have some questions for those of you who use Pocket already: 1/ How do you save to Pocket links you come across in Twitter? 2/ How do you save to Pocket links you come across in Google Discover? 3/ Is there a way to save to Pocket directly in Gmail vs clicking on the link and launching in the browser and saving there? So that’s one of the things I am up to on this year end holiday break. I appreciate all of your help in quickly making me a power Pocket user.
Date: 2018-12-24T10:47:15

Title: Feature Friday: Plan A Trip
URL: https://avc.com/2018/12/feature-friday-plan-a-trip/
Content:
I don’t really use Waze that much. My trips are typically a combo of walking, biking, subways, and driving and Google Maps does a great job of offering all of those options. Waze is made for driving. So I am more of a Google Maps user than a Waze user. But Waze has one feature that I am increasingly addicted to: the “plan a trip” later feature. I am going to Brooklyn this morning for a Board Meeting and then I need to be in my office later. So I pulled out my phone, launched Waze, and figured out when I need to leave by (if I am going by car). It looks like this: Given that Google (which owns Waze) has this data, I would love to see Google add this feature to Maps and apply it to subway trips as well. I would also like Google to add this data to scheduling a meeting in Google Calendar. Imagine if this feature was available in Resy and Open Table, when you are deciding when to book a table . Imagine if this feature was available any time that you are selecting a time for something and need to travel to it. We are living in a time when our phones and the services we use know so much about us and the world around us. That is problematic and getting more so. But it is also true that can offer magical experiences that makes our lives so much better. This plan a trip feature and other places it can be applied is an example of the latter.
Date: 2018-12-14T06:21:10

Title: La Hora del Código
URL: https://avc.com/2018/12/la-hora-del-codigo/
Content:
It is Computer Science Education Week . This is a worldwide movement to get schools everywhe re doing an hour of code . It started in 2009 and nine years later it is one of the largest learning events in the world. I celebrated CS Ed Week yesterday morning by visiting PS24 with NYC Schools Chancellor Richard Carranza and Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams . PS 24 is a dual language (English and Spanish) PreK-5 elementary school in Sunset Park Brooklyn.  The school is led by Jacqueline Nikovic and the student population is 88% Hispanic and 45% are English Language Learners. We started in a kindergarten that was a dual language integrated co-teaching classroom. That means these students are being supported in their effort to acquire a second language (English). The students were using cards with Spanish words on them like Empieza (start), B rinca (jump), and others to create an instruction set. They then followed the instructions. Here’s a photo of one of these instruction sets (those are my shoes on the lower left). This is a student showing the Chancellor and Borough President her instruction set. By the time they get to fifth grade at this school, the students are doing Scratch programming in the computer lab. In this photo below, the Chancellor was pair programming with a young man and a young woman (who unfortunately is blocked in this photo). Let’s just say the kids were doing the teaching and the Chancellor was doing the learning. PS 24 adopted NYC’s CS4All program this year so it is the first year that teachers in the school are getting professional development in computer science education. Everybody I met at the school, the Principal, the teachers, and the students, seem incredibly excited about getting computer science in their school. I was particularly impressed how PS 24 has made CS accessible to english language learners. The whole idea of CS4All is that we need to make these skills accessible to all learners, regardless of gender, race, age, neighborhood, language, etc. Though the teachers and students made it look easy yesterday, none of this is easy. The NYC Department of Education, and the private sector supporters of CS4All, are doing something very hard, introducing an entirely new subject into a curriculum that has largely been stale for the last fifty years. Sometimes I struggle with how hard this work is. But when I go out to the schools, which I have done twice in the last month, I get totally energized. Seeing the excitement on the student’s faces makes it all worth it.
Date: 2018-12-04T06:53:59

Title: Video Of The Week: The End Of The Beginning
URL: https://avc.com/2018/11/video-of-the-week-the-end-of-the-beginning/
Content:
This is a talk that Benedict Evans gave at the A16Z Summit earlier this month. If it were possible to watch YouTube in 2/3 speed, I would love to do that with this video. Otherwise, I think it is terrific in it’s ability to capture where we are in “tech” and where we are going. It is about 25mins long.
Date: 2018-11-24T08:38:27

Title: Economic Development
URL: https://avc.com/2018/11/economic-development/
Content:
On the west side of Manhattan, from the west village, where we live, to the Javits Center on 34th Street and the west side highway, runs an abandoned elevated train track called The Highline. Eleven years ago, the Gotham Gal and I took a walk on the old Highline with Joshua David, one of the two founders of Friends Of The Highline, and I wrote this post about what was going to happen . The Highline cost something like $400mm to renovate. Some of the funds came from the city and state, but most came from private donations, like the one the Gotham Gal and I made after taking that walk. And then we got to watch what happened. The neighborhood exploded and is still exploding. There has to have been tens of billions of dollars of investment in real estate along The Highline over the last ten years and it is still going on. I am not including Hudson Yards, which sits at the northern end of The Highline, which is another economic development story but not the one I am telling. This is a photo of the northern spur of The Highline I took about a year ago from the top floor of one of the buildings in Hudson Yards And into those buildings move companies and people. New homes get created. Then the coffee shops and grocery stores and restaurants come. And the local economy expands, by a lot. The city and the state taxes this economic activity and its coffers fill up a bit more as a result. When we took that first walk on The Highline, I asked Joshua if there was some way to tax the land owners along The Highline to fund the renovation of it. It was obvious to me that the value of that land was going to go up a lot. He told me there was not. That seemed like a missed opportunity to me back then and still does. I suspect the increased land values along The Highline are an order of magnitude higher than the total investment in The Highline. That is the power of economic development. It is a virtuous circle. You invest, you grow, you produce economic returns, you invest, you grow. Rinse and repeat. Why am I telling you this story today? Well I got this tweet in my timeline sometime yesterday: Amazon Is Getting $1.5 Billion to Come to Queens https://t.co/B4ITzuSXmj <- Why? @fredwilson Did NYC really need to pay Amazon $1.5B to come there? Will they get it back? — Peter Radizeski (@radinfo) November 13, 2018 It is a great question. And some economist should do the work. The city probably already has. My bet is that the City will get a return on this investment. Possibly a very large one. Twenty-five thousands jobs and all of the economic activity those jobs create are going to do a lot for Long Island City and all of NYC. The annual salaries for those 25,000 employees will be more than the $1.5-2bn that the city and state are committing to this project. When you add to that the real estate that will be constructed and renovated, all of the new homes that will be created for people, and the salaries for all of those construction workers, the local commerce (coffee shops, grocery stores, restaurants, etc) and the salaries that all of those employees will take home, etc, etc, I think it is a “ no brainer ” to be honest. You can all tell from the posts I have written on this subject over the last week that I am a big fan of economic development. I think it is one of the things that makes a city vital and allows a city to retain its vitality. In the thirty five years we have lived in NYC, we have seen much of Manhattan and Brooklyn rebuilt. Now we are seeing Queens do the same thing. The Bronx and Staten Island are not sitting idle either. It is a magnificent thing to see and I pinch myself every time I think about it.
Date: 2018-11-14T06:44:05

Title: Broken Syndicates
URL: https://avc.com/2018/11/broken-syndicates/
Content:
One of the most challenging situations in startup/venture capital land is the broken syndicate. It is not a topic that is talked about much, but it is fairly common, particularly for companies that succeed in building a business but falter at achieving escape velocity. A syndicate is a group of investors that come together to support a startup financially. They tend to be built over time. Some investors get involved with a company in its seed round. Others get involved in a company in the Series A round. And some get involved in the Series B round. By the time a startup has raised three or four rounds of venture capital, it is likely to have built a syndicate of between three and five venture capital firms and other investors (corporate, strategic, individuals, family offices, etc). The idea is that the syndicate supports the company financially until it no longer needs capital. That can happen via a sale of the company, an IPO, or achieving profitable operations. And that is typically what happens in the best situations, when the company executes well and finds that happy financial chart that goes up and to the right with a steepening slope. In companies like that, the syndicate almost always sticks together and more investors clamor to get into it. And then there is the company that never really figures out how to build a business. In those situations, everyone around the table, including the founders, figure out how to wind things down, either through a sale of the business, an acquihire, or a wind down. This happens all the time and is generally not a particularly painful process. But there is a middle ground, where the team figures out how to build a business with customers, revenue, and lots of employees. But often the business stumbles and revenues flatten and losses pile up and more capital is needed, often a lot more than the existing syndicate is prepared for. This is when there are often management changes, founders depart, and there is a lot of drama. And holding a syndicate together during the “stumble” is very hard. Some investors are managing huge funds and need exits that will produce hundreds of millions to their fund. When they see that a company will not do that, they often move on. Some investors have small funds and don’t have the capacity to fund a company round after round. Corporate and strategic investors can lose interest when a company stumbles and they no longer believe the business is strategic to them. Those are the “rational” reasons that syndicates break. But there are other reasons. There is a fair bit of churn inside venture capital firms right now. Younger partners leave to start their own firms. Or are asked to leave because they are not producing the expected returns. When a partner who leads an investment inside a venture capital firm leaves, the investment is often “orphaned” and the other partners will pretend to support it but they really don’t want to and don’t. Or even more upsetting is when a venture capital firm finds another company in the same sector that they like more and they lose interest in your company and stop supporting it. All of these things happen to companies who stumble and they happen way more frequently than anyone talks about. It really doesn’t benefit anyone to go public with these situations. So they are worked out quietly. Often broken syndicates lead to early exits, when the founder(s) and remaining investors realize that they are screwed and decide to find a home for the business before they run out of gas. Many times these exits are disappointing outcomes relative to the opportunity and they can make for fantastic acquisitions. Another thing that happens with broken syndicates is the recapitalization. This is when the remaining investors reset the valuation in order to bring in new capital, either from their funds or ideally from fresh sources of capital. The losers in this situation are the early investors, founders, and investors who walked away. And sometimes what happens is the business shuts down, leaving people scratching their heads. Why did that company which had lots of customers, revenues, and employees suddenly close up shop? Well the answer is often that their syndicate broke and they could not put it back together. At USV, we have worked through these stumbles and broken syndicates many times over the years. We often find ourselves in the position of trying to put Humpty Dumpty back together again. We have managed to do that many times. But we don’t manage to do it every time. It is incredibly difficult work , probably the hardest work we do in the venture capital business. And we often are asked why we bother. We have found that we can make excellent returns when we stick to our conviction around an opportunity and work to restructure the team, the operations, and the syndicate (and the valuation). We also have found that we are rewarded reputationally in the market as investors who are supportive when times get tough. And we believe that it our job to support companies and the founders who create them. We wish everyone in venture capital land saw things the way we do, but they do not. And that is the reality of the world we operate in. Founders need to understand all of this when they put their syndicates together. You should ask around about the investors who want to put money in your company. Look for companies that have stumbled and get to the people who know what happened in those situations and ask about how their investors behaved. That will tell you a lot. The bottom line is that syndicates are fragile things. They break. And putting them back together is hard. So figure how to build one that is strong and will stay strong. The best way to do that is to under promise and over deliver on the business plan. But you can also do yourself a lot of good by finding resilient investors and getting them into your cap table. So do that too.
Date: 2018-11-04T09:18:45

Title: Engaging In Cryptonetworks
URL: https://avc.com/2018/10/engaging-in-cryptonetworks/
Content:
Ever since the first cryptonetwork, Bitcoin, was created, investors have had the opportunity to earn returns by engaging in the network. In Bitcoin’s case, that was done by mining the network, effectively powering it. As the sector has grown, investors have largely turned their attention to buying and holding cryptoassets, and not that many of us are actively engaging in them. But that is likely going to change for several reasons. First, in proof of stake networks, asset holders will want to stake their tokens and earn the rewards of doing that, or risk being diluted/inflated. Conversely, those who do stake will earn rewards that will feel a bit like collecting interest or dividends on a bond or stock. This technique of turning an idle asset into an incoming producing asset by engaging in the network is part of the design of many cryptonetworks and investors are going to increasingly want to do these things (staking, validating, governing, etc) to earn the rewards of that engagement. There is another aspect to this, outlined by Tushar Jain of Multicoin earlier this week on their blog. Tushar points out that asset holders can act with their capital to help bootstrap the network by providing storage on the Filecoin network or transcoding on the LivePeer network or creating DAIs on the Maker network. The good news for investors is that there are a whole bunch of entrepreneurs setting up shop right now to help us do these things without each and every one of us becoming super technical about the ins and outs of each of these cryptonetworks. We will see (and are seeing) staking as a service, nodes as a service, and the like. These third parties will be like the proxy companies are in the stock markets. I expect the custodians, like our portfolio company Coinbase, to offer many of these services, either as the provider themselves or the gateway to the third party provider, thereby making it even easier for us to engage in these networks. It’s an exciting time to be a cryptoinvestor. A host of new cryptonetworks are starting to go live. The next 18 months will see many dreams come to fruition and with those dreams will come demands on the investors to engage instead of just hold. I am looking forward to doing that.
Date: 2018-10-25T07:22:37

Title: Kills Zones And Venture Funding
URL: https://avc.com/2018/10/kills-zones-and-venture-funding/
Content:
There is a debate going on about the impact of Facebook, Google, and Amazon’s growing dominance on the consumer internet on the supply of venture capital to entrepreneurs. Facebook funded this report that was published back in July and concluded that “big tech” was not impacting the supply of venture capital to entrepreneurs. Ian Hathaway , a researcher who studies venture capital formation, recently published this blog post that challenges that assertion with some data obtained from PitchBook. I have skimmed the Facebook funded report and read the Hathaway blog post and come away believing, as Hathaway himself does, that we don’t really know because the analyses done to date are not conclusive. But as a market participant, I can certainly say that we shy away from funding startups that are going up directly against the large tech incumbents. But we also are attracted to startups that are competing against the big incumbents with a fundamentally different model, like DuckDuckGo in search, or ShopShops in commerce. So, anecdotally, based on our activity and other venture capital activity that I have observed, I would say that the big tech incumbents have most definitely shaped where venture capital is going and where it is not going. That does not mean it has decreased the overall supply of venture capital. It most certainly has not. And, I would venture, that big tech is increasingly vulnerable to a number of attack vectors, many of them self-induced , which should be attracting entrepreneurs to more directly go after the core franchises of big tech. Whether those courageous entrepreneurs will attract the capital they need to launch those attacks is an open question. But I have a fundamental belief in capital markets to do the right thing over the long term and I also have a fundamental belief that entrepreneurs, software engineers, and new innovations will undo these increasingly dominant franchises in ways that regulators will never be able to.
Date: 2018-10-15T04:53:55

Title: Feature Friday: Gmail Predictive Typing
URL: https://avc.com/2018/10/feature-friday-gmail-predictive-typing/
Content:
I was typing emails on my new Pixelbook yesterday and as I started a new word, Gmail would finish the word and often suggest an entire phrase to come after the word. All I had to do is hit tab to accept the suggestion. I’ve had a version of that on the Gmail app on my phone for a while. It looks like this: But the type assistance functionality on my Pixelbook was much more useful. First it was in line and it suggested entire phrases, not just words. I’m of two minds on this feature: 1/ It is super useful and once I get used to it, I should be able to construct messages much more rapidly. 2/ I am not sure I want Google reverting my communication style (and yours too) to the mean. I suppose if Google was using just its understanding of my writing style and nobody else’s in its algorithms, then it is helping me be me. And I like that a lot more. But if it helping me be you, well I’m not as excited about that.
Date: 2018-10-05T08:59:58

Title: The Post-Sale Stay-Period
URL: https://avc.com/2018/09/the-post-sale-stay-period/
Content:
There is a lot of chatter on Tech Twitter and elsewhere about the Instagram founders leaving Facebook six years after selling their company to Facebook. All I can say about that situation is they gave Facebook way more of their time and energy than most founders would have. Of course there are cases where founders stay at the buyer for many years, sometimes even rising to become CEO But that is rare. Way more common is the founder bailing after a year or less. When companies that I am on the board of acquire founder-led companies, I advise them to highly incentivize the founders to stay (usually with a combination of cash and stock that is time based) but prepare for them to leave (by having a clear succession and transition plan in place right away). The truth is that many entrepreneurs don’t make for great corporate citizens. Entrepreneurs like to be in charge, to be able to move quickly without a lot of friction, and they like to feel a deep sense of ownership in what they are working on. That is often hard to find in a corporate environment where teamwork, collaborative decision making, and checks and balances are the norm. I am a big believer in acquisitions as a path for wealth creation (for both the seller and buyer) and as a logical exit for most startup founders. And staying for some period of time is required to make the acquisition work for both parties. But getting the founders to stay for six years is an amazing accomplishment and quite rare in my experience.
Date: 2018-09-25T07:36:24

Title: Video Of The Week: Brian Armstrong at Disrupt
URL: https://avc.com/2018/09/video-of-the-week-brian-armstrong-at-disrupt/
Content:
There is a narrative in crypto land that you are either in the “crypto is money” camp or the “crypto is tech” camp. This blog post from Erik Torenberg sums that up pretty nicely. The interview below is from TechCrunch Disrupt a week or so ago. Brian Armstrong , founder and CEO of our portfolio company Coinbase , was interviewed by Fitz Tepper . There are a couple points in this interview where Brian is presented with a version of that narrative. For example Fitz asked Brian “are you a tech company or a finance company.” I like how Brian acknowledges that framework but ultimately concludes that the answer is neither, that Coinbase is a crypto company and that crypto is both tech and money. I am of that view as well and I am glad to see leaders in the crypto sector articulating it.
Date: 2018-09-15T08:06:37

Title: Retaining vs Deleting Emails
URL: https://avc.com/2018/09/retaining-vs-deleting-emails/
Content:
Conventional wisdom is that deleting old emails regularly is the best way to avoid issues down the road. My experience has been different. I’ve been involved in a few legal matters over the years where email discovery has been done. Going back and re-reading emails you sent years ago is a pretty enlightening experience. What I have found is if you have the right intentions and act reasonably and responsibly, old emails often show that to everyone and can be valuable. Being able to go back over old emails is also a great way to jog a foggy memory. So while I understand the challenges with having a lot of written and discoverable emails “on file”, I would argue they they often can be quite valuable.
Date: 2018-09-05T08:54:22

